  Open Source Cross-Sectional Asset Pricing

            Andrew Y. Chen                         Tom Zimmermann
           Federal Reserve Board                    University of Cologne

          andrew.y.chen@frb.gov              tom.zimmermann@uni-koeln.de

                                           May 2021*




                                           Abstract


       We provide data and code that successfully reproduces nearly all cross-
       sectional stock return predictors. Our 319 characteristics draw from pre-
       vious meta-studies, but we differ by comparing our t-stats to the original
       papers’ results. For the 161 characteristics that were clearly significant in
       the original papers, 98% of our long-short portfolios find t-stats above 1.96.
       For the 44 characteristics that had mixed evidence, our reproductions find
       t-stats of 2 on average. A regression of reproduced t-stats on original long-
       short t-stats finds a slope of 0.88 and an R 2 of 82%. Mean returns are mono-
       tonic in predictive signals at the characteristic level. The remaining 114
       characteristics were insignificant in the original papers or are modifica-
       tions of the originals created by Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2020). These remain-
       ing characteristics are almost always significant if the original characteristic
       was also significant.




   * First posted to SSRN: May 18, 2020.    We thank Ivo Welch for encouraging us to work on
this project, and thank Shane Corwin, Paul Schultz, Luis Palacios, Rabih Moussawi, and Denys
Glushkov for making their code publically available. We also thank an anonymous referee, Guil-
laume Coqueret, Sebastian Hillenbrand, Liang Jiang, Yang Liu (from Tsinghua Finance), Yue
Zhao, and anonymous contributors to our GitHub repo for helpful comments. We are grateful to
Sebastian Weilbels and Arne Rodloff for excellent research assistance. The project received sup-
port from the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) under Germany’s Excellence Strategy -
EXC2126/1-39083886. The views expressed herein are those of the authors and do not necessar-
ily reflect the position of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve or the Federal Reserve
System.




              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
1.       Introduction

      Academic finance progresses through a mixture of open collaboration and
closed competition. In this paper, we attempt to push the culture toward open
collaboration by providing an “open source dataset” of hundreds of predictors of
the cross-section of stock returns.
      In our view, an open source dataset is essential because recent studies cast
doubt on the credibility of the entire cross-sectional asset pricing literature. Sev-
eral critiques argue that at least 45% of the findings in this literature are due
to p-hacking rather than real phenomena (Harvey, Liu, and Zhu 2016, Linnain-
maa and Roberts 2018, Chordia, Goyal, and Saretto 2020).1 Hou, Xue, and
Zhang (2020) go further and claim that roughly 50% of the literature cannot be
reproduced—that is, attempting to apply the same methods on the same sample
fails to achieve the original results.2, 3 Taken together, these critiques imply that
the claims found in this vast literature cannot be trusted.
      Our open source dataset takes a basic step toward restoring trust in cross-
sectional asset pricing. It shows that nearly 100% of the literature’s predictability
results can be reproduced, including the predictability results for 100% of the
characteristics studied in Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2020).4 Predictability survives
a number of robustness tests, including out-of-sample performance, mono-
tonicity, and various choices for constructing trading strategies. Readers may
be highly skeptical of our findings, given the critiques noted above.                        How-
ever, they do not need to take our word for it. Anyone with access to WRDS
and Stata can perform this massive replication themselves using our code at
www.openassetpricing.com.
  1
     Harvey, Liu, and Zhu’s (2016)“argue that most claimed researching findings in financial eco-
nomics are likely false.” Chordia, Goyal, and Saretto (2020) “estimate the expected proportion of
false rejections that researchers would produce if they failed to account for multiple hypothesis
testing to be about 45%.” Linnainmaa and Roberts (2018) “show the majority of accounting-
based return anomalies, including investment, are most likely an artifact of data snooping.”
   2
     Throughout the paper, we use the term “reproduction” to refer to “an attempt to replicate the
same result in the same sample with the same code,” following Welch (2019).
   3
     Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2020) (HXZ) state “[r]epeating our tests on the shorter samples in the
original studies, we find that 65.4% of anomalies cannot clear the single test hurdle of |t | ≥ 1.96
with NYSE breakpoints and value-weighted returns. The failure rate drops to 43.1% if we allow
microcaps to run amok with NYSE-Amex-NASDAQ breakpoints and equal-weighted returns.”
   4
     Following Welch’s (2019) terminology, we use the term “reproduction” to refer to an attempt
to produce the same result using the same sample with the same code. Reanalysis refers to a
broader concept that includes extensions and re-examinations.




                                                 1

              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
      Indeed, our code is written with the user in mind. The code is modular, so
users can quickly examine a particular characteristic without worrying about
most of the code. The code uses exception handling to gracefully move past er-
rors and semantic versioning to make updates easy to understand.5 Last, we are
committed to updating these data on an annual basis. We hope this demon-
stration of open collaboration will inspire others to open up their analyses, and
further support the credibility of academic finance.6
      Our code produces 319 firm-level characteristics, and only three fail to repro-
duce the original paper’s evidence of statistical significance for long-short port-
folio returns (in the original sample periods). Our t-stats even match the origi-
nals quantitatively: A regression of reproduced t-stats on hand-collected t-stats
finds a slope of 0.88 and an R 2 of 82%. Much of the remaining deviations are
likely due to minor deviations in test design, which are necessary in a replication
project as large as ours. We also find that mean returns are nicely monotonic in
the predictors. The probability that predictor decile k has a higher mean return
than decile k − 2 is roughly 96%.
      This near-100% reproduction success rate was made possible by a careful ex-
amination of the original papers. For each of our 319 signals, we hand-collect
the key table, empirical test, the sign of predictability, t-stat, and other details
from the original papers. This hand-collected data is also part of our open source
dataset, and available for public inspection.7
      The hand-collected data shows that characteristics in previous meta-studies
vary wildly in their original predictability evidence. They include everything
from dividend seasonality, which was shown to produce a long-short t-stat of
16.2 (Hartzmark and Solomon 2013), to R&D to sales, which has “little if any rela-
tion” with future returns (Chan, Lakonishok, and Sougiannis 2001). Many others
were never explicitly tested for return predictability (e.g. Francis et al.’s (2004)
accrual quality). As a result, judging the reproducibility of these characteristics
cannot come down to a single t-stat > 1.96 rule.8
  5
     The current version of the code is v1.1.0, indicating a minor revision (bug fixes and addition of
daily portfolios) to the previous v1.0.0, which in turn was a major revision (all code was rewritten
to be modular and handle exceptions) to v0.1.2.
   6
     Jensen, Kelly, and Pedersen (2021) is another open source project that provides code for many
cross-sectional predictors. Harvey and Liu (2019) provides crowd-sourced hand-collected data
on cross-sectional asset pricing t-stats.
   7
     Hand collected data is here:
https://github.com/OpenSourceAP/CrossSection/raw/master/SignalDocumentation.xlsx
   8
     Throughout the paper, we sign predictor portfolios to have positive mean returns based on



                                                  2

              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
    Instead, we apply the t-stat > 1.96 rule only when it is appropriate. This rule
is appropriate for the 161 characteristics we categorize as “clear predictors.” For
these characteristics, the original papers showed clear evidence of significant
predictability for our long-short portfolios. We find that 158 of 161 clear predic-
tors meet t-stat > 1.96, and one of the three which did not still achieved a t-stat
of 1.93.
    A more subtle evaluation is required for our 44 characteristics that had mixed
evidence of predictability in the original papers. These “likely predictors” include
52-week high, with its original long-short t-stat of 2.00 (George and Hwang 2004),
and sales growth over inventory growth, with its original t-stat of 2.4 in a multi-
variate regression (Abarbanell and Bushee 1998). Evaluating the reproducibility
of these t-stats is a subtle exercise, as an immaterial change can cause the 52-
week high to dip below t = 1.96, and we do not employ Abarbanell and Bushee’s
(1998) control variables in our portfolio sorts. Complicating issues further is the
fact that a few of our likely predictors deviate significantly from the original pa-
pers in terms of methodology. In a replication project as large as ours, a few
large deviations are unavoidable, and simply dropping these reproductions (or
attempted reproductions) is inconsistent with our philosophy of openness.
    To examine the reproducibility of likely predictors, we first examine the sub-
set for which the original papers provide long-short t-stats. All but four of these
predictors lead to similar t-stats in our reproductions (using the original sam-
ples). The exceptions are almost all accounted for by significant deviations be-
tween our methodology and the original papers, necessitated by the scale and
openness of our project.9 The likely predictors that did not have long-short t-
stats largely had borderline regression results. Our reproductions of these predic-
tors find similarly borderline significance in long-short portfolios. Once again,
we can trace deviations in results to deviations in methodology. For example,
some likely predictors that perform poorly in our single-sort long-short portfo-
lios were studied in multivariate regressions with many significant controls in
the original papers.
the original studies. Thus, the rule does not involve the absolute value, and t-stat < -1.96 typically
indicates a reproduction failure.
   9
     For example, our simple regression version of slope-based price delay produces a raw return
t-stat of 2.01, far smaller than Hou and Moskowitz’s (2005) characteristic adjusted t-stat of 7.7
from their two-stage shrinkage estimate. However, Hou and Moskowitz (2005) also show a sim-
ilar difference in t-stats for their baseline R 2 -based price delay when the move from a simple
regression estimate with no adjustment (t-stat = 3.4) to a two-stage estimate with characteristic
adjustments (t-stat = 8.0).


                                                  3

              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
   Overall, only three of our 205 clear and likely predictor reproductions failed to
achieve the predictability evidence found in the original papers (using the orig-
inal samples). These three predictors are R&D ability from Cohen, Diether, and
Malloy (2013) and the two shareholder activism measures from Cremers and Nair
(2005). These failures should not be taken as a criticism of these papers, however,
as it is quite likely that there are remaining deviations or coding errors among our
hundreds of reproduced characteristics. Indeed, a previous version of this paper
failed to reproduce Harvey and Siddique’s (2000) coskewness, but we have since
fixed an error in our code, which restored the power of our version of this predic-
tor. Moreover, data revisions could contribute to these reproduction difficulties.
   The rest of the dataset consists of 14 “not-predictors” that produced clearly
insignificant predictability in the original papers, and 100 “indirect signals”
which had only suggestive predictability evidence. Most of the indirect signals
are variations on other characteristics created by Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2020).
We refrain from precisely judging the reproducibility of these characteristics, as
assessing the success of indirect signals requires multiple stages of judgment.
Nevertheless, visual inspection of the reproduced t-stats for not-predictors and
indirect signals suggests that the cross-sectional literature is not only shockingly
replicable, but robust. Almost all of the indirect signals that are modifications of
clear predictors also produced significant predictability in our reproductions.
   We also provide several supporting demonstrations of the quality of our 205
clear and likely predictors. Pairwise correlations demonstrate that the dataset
consists of many distinct predictors. The dataset also displays intuitive proper-
ties with respect to rebalancing frequencies and liquidity screens. Notably, using
either value-weighting or screening out stocks below the 20th percentile of NYSE
market equity leads to in-sample mean returns that are about 30% (20 bps per
month) lower, consistent with Chen and Velikov’s (2019) in-sample results.


Relation to the Literature      Our results contrast with Hou, Xue, and Zhang
(2020) (HXZ), who find that “most anomalies fail to replicate.” HXZ differs from
our paper in that, while we emphasize reproduction (trying to use the origi-
nal methods on the original sample), HXZ emphasize measuring predictability
among the most liquid stocks, regardless of the original methods.
   The difference in emphasis does not explain our differing conclusions, how-
ever. HXZ find predictability is quite poor, even when they use methods close to



                                          4

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
the original papers’. Specifically, HXZ state “[r]epeating our tests on the shorter
samples in the original studies, we find that 65.3% of the anomalies cannot clear
the single test hurdle of |t | ≥ 1.96 with NYSE breakpoints and value-weighted re-
turns. The failure rate drops to 43.1% if we allow microcaps to run amok with
NYSE-Amex-NASDAQ breakpoints and equal-weighted returns.”
      Instead, we find that our results differ because of HXZ’s permissive defini-
tion of an anomaly. HXZ analyze 452 “anomalies,” but these derive from only 240
characteristics, as 212 of these anomalies are just different rebalancing frequen-
cies of the 240 basic strategies. And of the 240 characteristics, only 118 showed
clear evidence of significance for long-short returns in the original papers. In
fact, our reproductions find that 117 out of these 118 clear predictors achieve
t-stats > 1.96, and the remaining predictor has a t-stat of 1.93. In other words,
much of HXZ’s “replication failures” are simply due to misclassification: these
“anomalies” never had long-short portfolio significance to replicate in the first
place.
      Our reproduction rates also contrast with Chang and Li (2018), who find re-
production rates of 30-50% for 67 papers from general interest and macroeco-
nomics journals. Our studies differ in several ways, but a key difference is that
Chang and Li define a successful reproduction as “when the authors or journals
provide data and code that allow [them] to qualitatively reproduce key results of
the paper.” Indeed, lack of author-provided data and code is the most common
reason Chang and Li cite for their unsuccessful reproduction. In contrast, we did
not use author-provided code at all, and simply wrote code based on the text and
exhibits in the original papers.10 These results suggest that the widespread re-
production failures documented in previous studies (e.g. Dewald, Thursby, and
Anderson 1986, McCullough, McGeary, and Harrison 2006) could be remedied
by applying more effort.
      Our reproduction rates may also look high compared to McLean and Pontiff
(2016), who find that 12% of their 97 predictor portfolios produce t-stats < 1.5.
These results are reconciled, however, by the fact that 24 of MP’s predictors have
what we describe as borderline evidence of statistical significance in the original
papers. Among the 85 of our characteristics that are also studied by MP, 14% of
our reproductions lead to t-stats < 1.96, quite close to MP’s numbers. Most of
these low t-stats come from “likely predictors,” however, and we do not judge
 10
      For one characteristic, we download characteristic data from the authors’ website.



                                                 5

                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
them as reproduction failures. We should note that MP’s inclusion of likely pre-
dictors is entirely valid for the goals of their study.
     Indeed, our open source data is highly consistent with MP’s findings. Like
MP, we find that returns decay post-publication but remain positive, and that
this decay is stronger for predictors that are stronger in-sample. Our results are
quantitatively similar to those in MP, even for the subset of our predictors that
are not studied by MP. These results echo previous papers that replicate MP in
larger sets of predictors (Chen and Zimmermann 2020, Jacobs and Müller 2020,
Jensen, Kelly, and Pedersen 2021).
     Our paper adds to the evidence that the cross-sectional predictability lit-
erature is actually quite credible. These studies include out-of-sample tests
(McLean and Pontiff 2016; Jacobs and Müller 2020), as well as multiple-testing
adjustments (Chen and Zimmermann 2020; Chen 2020; Jensen, Kelly, and Ped-
ersen 2021). Relative to these papers, ours adds novel evidence that the cross-
sectional literature replicates well by comparing reproduced t-stats to hand-
collected t-stats.
     An important caveat is that we do not address the distinct but related ques-
tion of whether the literature offers implementable trading profits. In a closely
related paper, Chen and Velikov (2019) suggest that the answer is no. Building
on Novy-Marx and Velikov (2016), Chen and Velikov find that effective bid-ask
spreads wipe out most of the post-publication returns for a large set of anoma-
lies.
     The paper proceeds as follows. Section 2 describes our methodology, includ-
ing our characteristics selection and predictor category definitions. Section 3
contains the main results: literature-level reproduction performance. Section 4
takes a closer look, examining reproductions at the characteristic level. Section
5 provides additional evidence supporting the quality of our dataset. Section 6
concludes.



2.      Methods: Characteristic Selection, Reproduction
        Methods, and Predictability Categories

     This section describes our methodology. We describe how we select char-
acteristics, how we construct characteristics and portfolios, and how we clas-



                                           6

             Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
sify characteristics based on predictability evidence. Table 1 provides a broad
overview of the dataset. We explain the terminology and numbers in this table in
what follows.


        [Table 1: “Overview of Open Source Asset Pricing Data” around here]


2.1.      Characteristic Selection

      We select characteristics to balance three objectives: (1) comprehensive cov-
erage of previous meta-studies, (2) comprehensive coverage of firm-level cross-
sectional predictors, and (3) completion of high quality code and data with a
reasonable amount of economist-hours.
      Our list begins with the 240 characteristics used in Hou, Xue, and Zhang
(2020) (HXZ).11 We then add an additional 49 characteristics for near-complete
coverage of McLean and Pontiff (2016) (MP) and Green, Hand, and Zhang (2017)
(GHZ). Finally, we add 30 firm-level stock return predictors from Harvey, Liu, and
Zhu (2016) (HLZ).
      This collection leads to a total of 319 characteristics drawn from 153 papers.
Covering HXZ requires that we sometimes include many characteristics based
on a single study.
      We do not add all characteristics from MP and GHZ due to our third goal of
completing high quality code in a reasonable amount of time. We omit the merg-
ers and SEO characteristics from MP because they use the difficult-to-integrate
SDC dataset. From the GHZ dataset, we omit seven characteristics from unpub-
lished working papers (Asness, Porter, and Stevens 2000; Gettleman and Marks
2006; Lerman, Livnat, and Mendenhall 2008; Bandyopadhyay, Huang, and Wir-
janto 2010), and one predictor from a retracted paper (Chen and Zhang 2010).
      In adding characteristics from HLZ, we require that the characteristic was
clearly shown to predict firm-level stock returns in the original paper. The firm-
level requirement eliminates many papers that target only portfolio returns,
which was a prevalent feature of asset pricing papers before the 1990s (e.g. Chan,
Chen, and Hsieh 1985; Chen, Roll, and Ross 1986) and of macroeconomics-
motivated papers more generally (e.g. Vassalou 2003; Balvers and Huang 2007).
 11
   HXZ use these 240 characteristics to generate 452 “anomalies” by varying rebalancing fre-
quencies.




                                             7

              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
This requirement is motivated by our second goal of a covering firm-level pre-
dictors.
      However, our first goal of meta-study coverage motivates us to not require
clear firm-level predictability on characteristics from HXZ, MP, or GHZ. As a re-
sult, our characteristics vary greatly in their predictive power based purely on the
results in the original studies.


2.2.       Reproduction Methods

      We try to follow the original papers as closely as possible. We aim for “re-
productions” in the sense of Welch (2019), and avoid reassessing the validity of
the original papers. In our view, extensions and reexaminations require focused
studies (e.g. Pontiff and Singla 2019, Novy-Marx and Velikov Forthcoming), and
are inappropriate for a large-scale meta-study like ours.
      Though we aim for reproductions, we also aim for large-scale coverage of the
literature and transparency. As a result, we standardize several procedures, lead-
ing to deviations from some of the original papers. Thus, our reproductions may
be better described as “attempted reproductions,” but for ease of reading we typ-
ically drop the “attempted” modifier throughout the text.12
      Two of our standardized procedures are worth noting because they likely lead
to lower t-statistics than the original procedures. The first is that we standardize
the annual accounting data lag at six months (Fama and French 1992), though
several accounting papers use shorter lags. The second is that we use raw long-
short portfolio returns, rather than characteristic- or factor-adjusted returns.
The first standardization makes less timely use of information than some papers,
and thus likely produces smaller mean returns. The second standardization also
likely produces smaller mean returns, as many anomalies have negative factor
exposures.


2.2.1.     Characteristic Construction

      All characteristics are computed at a monthly frequency. For variables that
are updated at a lower frequency, the monthly value is the most recently ob-
served value. This allows for portfolios that update at a lower frequency, while
 12
    Even for a small-scale study, a perfect reproduction is likely impossible. WRDS’ reproduction
of HML obtains a correlation of 98.9% with Ken French’s data, but the monthly returns still have
deviations of up to 1% in particular months (Vora and Palacios 2010)


                                               8

              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
maintaining flexibility for alternative implementations.13 However, our monthly
characteristics imply that we deviate from the handful of studies that use weekly
rebalancing.
      For almost all characteristics, we use the standard six-month lag for annual
accounting data availability and a one-quarter lag for quarterly accounting data
availability. In a couple cases, we use the earnings reporting date (RDQ) to in-
dicate availablility of quarterly data in order to more closely match the original
papers. For IBES, we assume earnings estimates are available by the statistical
period end date. Other data is assumed to be available following the original pa-
pers. As a consequence of this standardization, we deviate from a few accounting
studies, which use a shorter data lag.14
      Many characteristics were only shown to be predictive in particular subsets
of the data. We try to put off this subsetting until the portfolio generation step.
Thus, the characteristics code and data omit price and exchange filters, which
are instead imposed in portfolio generation.
      Other filters, however, are quite diverse and difficult to implement at the port-
folio stage. Several papers exclude stocks based on SIC codes or missing account-
ing data. Still others find predictability only in subsets of stocks based on specific
characteristics (Piotroski 2000; Elgers, Lo, and Pfeiffer 2001). To accommodate
these filters in a manageable fashion, we set to missing stock-months that don’t
satisfy these filters in the characteristics code.
      In a few cases, we deviate from the original papers to trade off costs and ben-
efits. For most of these cases, we deviate by not acquiring the data used in the
original papers. For example, Barber et al. (2001) and Jegadeesh et al. (2004) use
Zack’s analyst recommendations data, which goes back much further than the
easily accessible IBES recommendations on WRDS. Similarly, we do not obtain
the NYSE archive data required for Barry and Brown (1984) or the Fitch’s Quota-
tion data used by Amihud and Mendelson (1986).
      But other deviations are more idiosyncratic. We include a “number of con-
secutive earnings increases” predictor that is somewhat distant from the earn-
ings streak predictor in Loh and Warachka (2012) in order to cover a predictor in
 13
     For a handful of studies, we enforce the timing of the updating in the characteristics code.
This was done help us find the code that closely matches the original results in a handful of
difficult cases.
  14
     For users of the code: the accounting data lag is imposed in the data download step, and is
not visible in the files that generate characteristics.



                                               9

              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Green, Hand, and Zhang (2017). We do, however, also include a characteristic
that is closely-based on Loh and Warachka’s (2012) earnings streaks. All of our
price delay predictors (Hou and Moskowitz 2005) use rolling regressions of daily
individual stock returns, while the original paper typically uses a 2-stage pro-
cedure that first estimates a noisy measure of price delay on individual stocks
and then reduces the noise by running a second set of regressions on portfolios
formed from the first stage. We use the simpler estimates of price delay largely to
due to our economist-hours budget.


2.2.2.    Portfolio Construction and Predictability Tests

      The core of our portfolio data consists of predictive long-short portfolios
formed following the original papers. Like other predictability studies, we im-
plicitly assume data at the end of month t can be used to make trades in closing
auctions on the last day of month t .15 These are the portfolios we use in our
evaluations of reproduction success.
      Using the original paper’s results, we select the stock-weighting, rebalancing
frequency, and quantile sort (if applicable). Each portfolio implementation is
listed in our hand-collected data. Once again, we deviate from the original pa-
pers for a handful of portfolios in the spirit of standardizing our code and results.
The most notable deviation is that we use a simple equal-weighted decile sort
portfolio for reproduction of Frazzini and Pedersen’s (2014) betting-against-beta
instead of the original construction where each stock is weighted depending on
its beta ranking.
      We also offer portfolios implementations with alternative rebalancing fre-
quencies and liquidity screens, as well as decile sorts and value-weighted only
portfolios. We caution the user, however, in that these alternative implementa-
tions are not as closely examined as the portfolios that follow the original papers.
      In our baseline data, we do not sign our characteristics, but do sign our port-
folios. That is, a higher idiosyncratic volatility characteristic implies a lower
mean return, but the corresponding long-short portfolio has a positive mean re-
turn. The hand-collected data has this sign information, which users can apply
to transform characteristics if this fits their applications.16 For simplicity, we do
 15
     As pointed out in Chen and Velikov (2019), the hypothetical traders in our portfolio tests
would add demand to the closing auctions for the long legs, thereby increasing the buying prices
and reducing trading profits.
  16
     We also provide a dataset of signed predictors for direct download.


                                              10

              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
not sign portfolios if the original papers do not provide direct evidence on the
correct sign.
      It’s also worth noting that our portfolio implementations follow the origi-
nal papers which typically document predictability, rather than follow up pa-
pers that try to explain predictability with “factors.” Thus, our value, size, and
profitability long-short portfolios are constructed from simple single sorts, rather
than from 2x3 sorts as in Fama and French (1993) or Fama and French (2015).17
      Our predictability tests examine the null hypothesis that the mean monthly
raw long-short portfolio return is zero. This standardized test is both common
(Green, Hand, and Zhang 2013; McLean and Pontiff 2016) and transparent. This
standardization, however, means that sometimes our attempted reproductions
may differ from the original or follow up papers. For example, some original
papers only examine factor-adjusted returns (Loh and Warachka 2012) or annual
returns that are compounded from monthly (La Porta 1996).18


2.3.      Predictability Categories

      To determine predictability categories, we compare results from the original
papers to our characteristic reproduction code.
      The original results are hand-collected.         We hand-collect the key table
demonstrating predictive power, the empirical test used, the sign of predictabil-
ity, mean return, t-stat, individual stock weighting, portfolio sort quantile, rebal-
ancing frequency, among other notes. Figure 1 shows an excerpt of our spread-
sheet for illustration.19
      Comparing the hand-collected data to our code, we assign our characteristics
to four categories:


      • “Clear Predictor”: Our characteristic is expected to achieve statistically sig-
        nificant mean raw returns in long-short portfolios (e.g. t-stat > 2.5 in a
        long-short portfolio, monotonic portfolio sort with 80 bps spread, t-stat
 17
     Demo code for making Fama and French (1993) style factors from the open source data can
be found at
https://github.com/OpenSourceAP/CrossSectionDemos/blob/main/FF1993_style_implementation.r
We plan to add 2x3 implementations in future versions of the open source data.
  18
     Compounding can make a large difference, especially if the short portfolio is quite volatile,
as in La Porta (1996) (see also Bordalo et al. 2019).
  19
     The full spreadsheet is found at
https://github.com/OpenSourceAP/CrossSection/raw/master/SignalDocumentation.xlsx.


                                            11

              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
         > 4 in a regression, t-stat > 3 in 6-month event study).

    • “Likely Predictor”: Our characteristic is expected to achieve borderline evi-
         dence for the significance of mean raw returns in long-short portfolios (e.g.
         t-stat = 2.0 in long-short with factor adjustments, t-stat between 2 and 3 in
         a regression, large t-stat in 3-day event study).

    • “Not-Predictor”: Expected to be statistically insignificant in long-short
         portfolios. (e.g. t-stat = 1.5 in long-short, t-stat = 1 in a regression).

    • “Indirect Signal”: Only suggestive evidence of predictive power (e.g. cor-
         related with earnings/price, modified version of a different characteristic,
         in-sample evidence only).

    These categorizations are necessary in order to measure reproduction suc-
cess. For clear predictors, the measurement is straightforward, as a t-stat > 1.96
easily identifies a success. Note that we sign our long-short portfolios based on
the original results, so this rule does not involve the absolute value. For not-
predictors, the sign flips, and a t-stat < 1.96 is indicative of a success.
    Measuring reproduction success is more subtle for the other categories, how-
ever. Some likely predictors had t-stats very close to 1.96 in a raw long-short port-
folio in the original paper. Given that data updates will surely move the t-stat up
or down, one should then place 50/50 odds that the reproduced t-stat will be
above or below 1.96. Similarly, if the original paper found a t-stat of 2.6 in a uni-
variate regression, it’s hard to say if the reproduced long-short portfolio should
also produce a t-stat > 1.96. Deviations between our characteristics code and the
original recipes also lead to likely predictors, and necessitate subtle judgment
calls.
    Indirect signals are also tricky. Most of our indirect signals are modifications
of other characteristics, and whether the modification should increase or de-
crease the t-stat requires judgment. Complicating the issue is the fact that some
indirect signals are modifications of likely or not-predictors, implying that mul-
tiple steps of judgment are required to determine which side of t-stat = 1.96 our
long-short portfolio should land on.
    Each characteristic’s predictability category can be found in Tables 2-4, and
the assignments are discussed in some more detail in Section 4.1.
    Table 1 briefly summarizes our predictability category assignments. Of our
319 characteristics, 161 are clear predictors and 44 are likely predictors. 14 of our

                                             12

               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
characteristics are not-predictors, and 100 are indirect signals. As seen in the top
panel, not-predictors and indirect signals play a minor role in most other meta-
studies, with the exception being Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2020). Indeed, the vast
majority of our not-predictors and indirect signals are drawn from Hou, Xue, and
Zhang (2020).
      The bottom panel of Table 1 shows that our data provides more-or-less com-
prehensive coverage of other meta-studies. We cover all 452 of Hou, Xue, and
Zhang’s (2020) “anomalies”, 97% of the clear predictors from McLean and Pontiff
(2016), 88% of the clear predictors from Green, Hand, and Zhang (2017), and 90%
of the clear firm-level predictors that use widely-available data from Harvey, Liu,
and Zhu (2016). We also cover all of the likely predictors in McLean and Pontiff
(2016), Green, Hand, and Zhang (2017), and Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2020). Indeed,
most of the clear, widely-available predictors that we are missing are closely re-
lated to predictors that we offer (e.g. the industry-adjusted value and momentum
predictors of Asness, Porter, and Stevens 2000).
      Throughout the paper, data, and code, we separate out the clear and likely
predictors from the not predictors and indirect signals. We often refer to clear
and likely predictors as just “predictors,” for short.
      For many purposes, predictors are the only characteristics that should be
examined. Moreover, predictors are substantially less redundant than the full
dataset. While the full dataset consists of 319 characteristics from 153 studies,
the predictors consist of 205 predictors from 137 studies. For 101 studies, we
draw only a single predictor from the study.20



3.       Literature-Level Reproduction Performance

      This section contains our main results. We begin by examining literature level
reproduction performance for clear and likely predictors (Section 3.1). We then
broaden the scope to not-predictors and indirect signals when we compare to
other meta-studies (Section 3.2).


 20
    The distribution of predictors per study is right skewed. Most studies have just one predictor,
but 20 have 2, and a few have many more. Heston and Sadka (2008) provide 10 strategies re-
lated to return seasonality, and we include all 10 as clear predictors to avoid imposing judgment
on which is the “right” strategy. A similar philosophy leads us to include many predictors from
Richardson et al. (2005) and Daniel and Titman (2006).



                                                13

              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
3.1.    Success of Predictor Reproductions

   Our first measure of reproduction success is a simple indicator: does the
long-short raw return t-stat exceed 1.96? This measure is the primary focus of
Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2020) (HXZ), and provides an easy-to-understand mea-
sure of reproduction success.
   Figure 2 shows the share of clear predictors that exceed the simple t-stat >
1.96 cutoff, broken down by data focus: accounting, analyst forecasts, corporate
events, stock prices, trading data, and a broad “other” category. It shows only
clear predictors, as likely predictors had borderline significance in the original
papers (Section 2.3). As in all of our reproduction success evaluations, we use
the same sample period that was used in the original papers.
   The figure shows that the reproductions are extremely successful. Our suc-
cess rates are nearly 100% in every category. 73 out of our 74 accounting focused
clear predictor reproductions succeeded. 40 out of 41 price-focused reproduc-
tions succeeded. And 43 out of 44 reproductions succeeded among the remain-
ing categories.

    [Figure 2 “Reproduction Success Rates for Clear Predictors” about here.]

   One might be concerned that our extremely high success rate is sensitive to
our definition of a clear predictor. Similarly, one may be concerned that, even if
our t-stats exceed 2.0, they may be much smaller than the original t-stats.
   Figure 3 should assuage both of those concerns. The figure examines both
clear and likely predictors, and evaluates reproduction success more qualita-
tively, by simply plotting our reproduced t-stats against the t-stats of the original
papers. To ensure that t-stats are comparable, the figure excludes predictors that
were only examined in regressions or event studies in the original papers. We
also drop t-stats from Barber et al. (2001), Frazzini and Pedersen (2014), and Hou
and Moskowitz (2005) because our portfolio constructions are very far from the
originals for idiosyncratic reasons (see Section 2.2).

    [Figure 3 “Comparison of Reproduced and Original t-stats” about here.]

   The figure shows that our extremely high reproduction success rate is not
sensitive to our predictor categorizations. Included in this chart are 11 likely pre-
dictors (triangles), all of which had t-stats close to 2 in the original papers (hori-
zontal axis). Consistent with the original papers, our reproductions also typically

                                          14

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
produce t-stats close to 2.0, though roughly half of them fall below the arbitrary
1.96 threshold. More broadly, our extremely high success rate for clear predictors
is not due to t-stats just above 2.0. Many reproduced t-stats exceed 5.0, and a few
even exceed 10.0.
   Perhaps most important, Figure 3 shows that our reproductions match the
original results not just qualitatively but quantitatively. A regression of our repro-
duced t-stats on the original t-stats produces a coefficient of 0.88, not far from the
ideal slope of 1.0. The R 2 is 82%, implying that the reproductions do not stray far
from the originals. Much of the remaining deviations may be due to the fact that
our t-stats use simple raw mean long-short returns, while many of the original
t-stats adjust for characteristics or factor exposures. Indeed, many of anomalies
have negative betas, and so adjusting for factor exposure would likely increase
our regression coefficient.
   Figure 4 takes a closer look at reproduction performance by examining sub-
sets of predictors. Predictors published in 2008 or later (top left) reproduce sig-
nificantly better than predictors published before 2008 (top right), as seen by
the deviations between the OLS fits (solid lines) and the ideal 45 degree lines
(dotted). A similar pattern is seen when comparing predictors published in the
Journal of Finance, Review of Financial Studies, or the Journal of Financial Eco-
nomics (bottom left) with predictors published elsewhere (bottom right). Intu-
itively, the anomalies literature became much more standardized after the mid-
2000s, and this standardization is more strongly enforced in select finance jour-
nals.
   As a final demonstration of the reproducibility of the cross-sectional litera-
ture, we examine whether mean returns are monotonic in the predictors. From
our experience, the vast majority of papers that showed portfolio sorts also
showed monotonicity—though we did not hand-collect this information.
   Figure 5 examines the monotonicity of decile sorts for clear and likely predic-
tors. The figure limits the data to 170 continuous predictors, as discrete predic-
tors are poorly behaved in decile sorts. It plots the mean return as a function of
the decile, with each marker representing one predictor-decile, and boxes sum-
marizing the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentile mean return within each decile. The
figure shows that mean returns are indeed monotonically increasing in the pre-
dictors. The median across predictors increases monotonically from one decile
to the next, as does the 25th percentile and the 75th percentile.



                                          15

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                      [Figure 5 “Monotonicity” about here.]


   The box plots do not show predictor-level monotonicity, however, so we
color-code the markers for a closer look. Filled markers indicate predictor-level
monotonicity for a given predictor-decile. That is, the marker is filled if the mean
return in decile k for predictor i exceeds the mean return for decile k − 1 for
the same predictor i . The figure shows that roughly 80% of the predictor-deciles
show an increase, a strong indication of monotonicity at the predictor level. To
get a sense of this ratio, note that it suggests the probability that decile k exceeds
the return of decile k − 2 is 1 − 0.22 = 96% in a simple binomial framework, and
that this probability is even higher when comparing deciles further apart.
   Beyond supporting reproducibility, this monotonicity result demonstrates
robustness of the cross-sectional predictability literature. That is, monotonic-
ity shows that the predictability evidence we find is not sensitive to the details
of the empirical test. Deciles sorts, cross-sectional regressions, event studies
should all produce consistent results. This finding is consistent with early ver-
sions of McLean and Pontiff (2016), which found that their results were similar
using Fama-Macbeth regressions instead of long-short portfolios.
   Interestingly, Figure 5 also provides evidence against the p-hacking explana-
tion for predictability. For p-hacking to explain predictability, it would have to
operate across the entire predictor distribution, incrementally increasing mean
returns from one level of the predictor to the next. This fine-tuning is an issue
that is not examined in previous studies that model p-hacking (Harvey, Liu, and
Zhu (2016); Chen and Zimmermann 2020; Chen 2020), nor is it examined in Hou,
Xue, and Zhang (2020).
   This concludes our main results. Nearly 100% of the literature on cross-
sectional stock return predictability can be replicated. This finding implies not
only the veracity of the literature, but defends the credibility of the asset pricing
community more generally. Finally, these results support the quality of our open
source dataset, publically available at www.openassetpricing.com.


3.2.    Not-Predictors, Indirect Signals, and Comparison with
        Other Meta-Studies

   The overwhelming success of our reproductions may appear to be at odds
with the literature. McLean and Pontiff (2016) (MP) find that 12% of their 97

                                          16

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
predictors produce t-stats < 1.5, suggesting a far higher “failure rate” than to
our main results. More strikingly, Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2020) (HXZ) find that
roughly 50% of their 452 long-short portfolios produce t-stats < 1.96 in absolute
value, even with equal-weighting and when limiting to the original papers’ sam-
ple periods.
   Our results differ from MP and HXZ primarily because we carefully examine
the original papers to check if reproduced long-short t-stats should exceed 1.96
before testing this threshold in our reproductions. In contrast, MP have a some-
what more lenient criterion, limiting themselves to papers “in which the null of
no return predictability is rejected at the 5% level.” HXZ are much more lenient.
HXZ state their “list encompasses the bulk of the published anomalies literature
in finance and accounting,” but do not specify any more requirements for inclu-
sion that we could identify.
   Our careful examination is illustrated in Figure 6, which shows a jitter plot of
reproduced t-statistics for all of our characteristics, including those in the “not-
predictor” and “indirect signal” categories. The first two rows echo Figures 2
and 3: Clear predictors almost uniformly have t-stats > 1.96 and many t-stats
are much larger. Likely predictors are roughly evenly distributed around 1.96.
Notably, these rows include predictors with evidence based on regressions and
event studies, and thus cover far more likely predictors than Figure 3.

     [Figure 6 “Predictive Significance in the Extended Dataset” about here.]

   Unlike the clear and likely predictors, not-predictors and indirect signals gen-
erally failed to achieve statistical significance in our reproductions. A large mass
of indirect signals lies to the left of t-stat = 1.6, and almost all of the not-predictors
fall in the same region.
   Figure 7 shows the analogous plot, restricted to the predictors that also ap-
pear in MP (top panel) or HXZ (bottom panel).

           [Figure 7 “Performance vs Other Meta-Studies” about here.]

   The top panel echos MP’s finding that about 12% their predictors have small
t-stats. 14 of our 85 characteristics that overlap with MP have t-stats < 1.96 (dot-
ted line). Most of these we judged as likely predictors, though a handful were
judged as indirect signals and one was judged as a not-predictor. In particular,
we judged Dichev’s (1998) Z-Score as a not-predictor, as it finds a t-stat of 1.59 in a

                                           17

             Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
univariate regression (see Dichev’s Table 3A). It’s likely that MP included Z-Score
due to its t-stat of 3.37 in a multivariate regression with size and B/M controls,
and reasonable people can disagree on the proper classification of this predic-
tor. Nevertheless, we argue that our reproduced t-stat of 1.20 for Z-Score (Table
4) should not be judged as a reproduction failure, as it is quite consistent with
Dichev’s univariate results.
    The bottom panel of Figure 7 shows the breakdown for characteristics that
overlap with HXZ’s. The data looks quite similar to our full dataset (Figure 6):
Clear predictors are almost entirely above 1.96, likely predictors center around
1.96, not-predictors are below, and indirect signals are dispersed but many fall
below the 1.96 cutoff. Thus, HXZ’s failure rate of around 50% seems to be due
to the misclassification of the “anomalies.” In our reproductions, almost all ap-
parent failures are linked to studies that never demonstrated predictability in the
first place.
    Importantly, MP’s choice to be more lenient in determining original-study-
predictability is entirely valid for the goals of their study. MP seek to measure
the decline in the magnitude of predictability out-of-sample, and one may be
interested in this decline for predictors that don’t quite meet the 1.96 cutoff.
    Indeed, we find that we can closely replicate MP’s results, even if we limit our
sample to clear predictors. This robustness is seen in Figure 8, which replicates
(MP’s) Figure 1 using only clear predictors. The top panel plots the in-sample
return vs the post-publication return decay, and the bottom panel swaps out the
in-sample return for the in-sample t-stat. In both panels, we subset the data to
clear predictors in MP (dark circle) and clear predictors that are not in MP (light
triangles).


          [Figure 8 “McLean and Pontiff (2016) Replication” about here.]


    The figure replicates and extends three important facts documented by MP
about post-publication decay: (1) decay increases in the in-sample return, (2)
decay increases in the in-sample t-stat, and (3) the decay is not large enough to
wipe out the in-sample return.
    The first two facts can be seen in the upward slope of the regression lines
in Figure 8. Strikingly, the upward slope does not depend on whether we fit
the regression to predictors that are studied by MP (solid) or missing from MP
(dashed). Indeed, the two standard error confidence bands largely overlap, indi-

                                             18

               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
cating that MP’s findings hold quantitatively in an out-of-sample test (or perhaps
out-of-out-of-sample test). Visual inspection of MP’s Figure 1 suggests our re-
sults are also quantitatively consistent with MP’s, even though we limit our sam-
ple to clear predictors. We also find that using of all of MP’s predictors leads to
similar results.
     The third fact can be seen by comparing the predictor markers to the 45 de-
gree dotted line in the top panel. If post-publication decay is strong enough
to wipe out in-sample returns, then the predictors would be evenly distributed
around this 45 degree line. However, the majority of predictors lie above the 45
degree line, showing that predictability survives post-publication (see also Figure
A.2 in the Appendix). It’s important to note, however, that these results do not ac-
count for trading costs. Indeed, Chen and Velikov (2019) find that the remaining
predictability is eliminated by effective bid-ask spreads.
     Overall, our results appear to differ from other meta-studies because we care-
fully categorize predictors based on the original results. Only with this careful
categorization can a meta-study accurately evaluate whether replications are
successful on such a large scale. These categorizations do not affect McLean
and Pontiff’s (2016) analysis and indeed we replicate their results among pre-
dictors with a higher standard for “original significance.” In contrast, Hou, Xue,
and Zhang’s (2020) finding of widespread replication failure does not survive a
more careful inspection.



4.      Characteristic-Level Reproduction Performance

     Behind the literature-level results are 319 firm-level characteristics, each of
which has its own story, original statistics, and reproduction quality. Tables 2-
4 explore this rich data, listing each individual characteristic, the reproduced
mean return and t-stat, and the evidence for predictability in the original pa-
pers. Table 2 lists clear predictors, Table 3 lists likely predictors, and Table 4 lists
not-predictors and indirect signals.
     At the surface level, these tables provide a quick reference guide to our
dataset. We sort characteristics by author names and provide the acronym used
in our code, so readers can easily look up characteristics of interest.
     At a deeper level, the tables provide a detailed characterization of our judg-
ments of predictor categories (Section 4.1), our reproduction failures and strug-


                                           19

             Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
gles (Section 4.2), and the reproductions that led to extremely large t-stats (Sec-
tion 4.3).

                 [Table 2 “Individual Clear Predictors” about here.]

                 [Table 3 “Individual Likely Predictors” about here.]

                  [Table 4 “Additional Characteristics” about here.]


4.1.     Which Predictors Are “Clear,” “Likely,” or “Not?” Which are
         “Indirect Signals?”

   We explained our predictor categorizations in Section 2.3 and showed that
the categorizations do not affect our assessment of the literature’s reproducibil-
ity for long-short portfolios t-stats in Section 3. However, readers may still have
questions about why certain predictors are relegated to the “likely,” “not,” or “in-
direct signal” categories. Tables 2-4 should answer this question.


4.1.1.   Categorization Details for Clear and Likely Predictors

   Table 2 shows that most clear predictors produced t-stats that exceed 2.5 in
long-short portfolios in the original papers (e.g. Ang et al.’s (2006) idiovol, Belo
and Lin’s (2012) inventory growth, Dichev’s (1998) long-short O-Score strategy).
Most of the remaining ones were shown to generate t-stats of 4 or more in re-
gressions (e.g. Fama and French’s (1992) book-to-market, Pontiff and Woodgate’s
(2008) share issuance). As with portfolio sorts, we only consider regressions to be
predictive if they forecast returns in period t + 1 using data available at time t .
   In contrast, most of the likely predictors (Table 3) had marginal t-stats in the
original papers. Several predictors had t-stats very close to 1.96 in long-short
portfolios (Ball et al.’s (2016) operating profitability, George and Hwang’s (2004)
52-week high). Others have t-stats between 2 and 3 in regressions (Abarbanell
and Bushee’s (1998) sales growth over inventory growth, Fama and MacBeth’s
(1973) CAPM beta). It’s worth noting that the t-statistic cutoff of 1.96 is fairly
arbitrary, and for some questions regressions are more relevant than long-short
portfolios.
   Other likely predictors were more ambiguous. Amihud and Mendelson’s
(1986) bid-ask spread predictor showed strong portfolio sorts, but the original

                                            20

              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
paper did not provide a long-short t-stat. Moreover, they use Fitch’s Stock Quo-
tations on the NYSE, while we use Corwin and Schultz’s (2012) effective spread
based on daily CRSP data (also used in McLean and Pontiff (2016)). Chan, Lakon-
ishok, and Sougiannis’s (2001) advertising expense to market produced a 50 bps
spread in portfolio sorts, but they did not provide a t-stat. Haugen and Baker
(1996) suggest several predictors based on the average t-stat across 180 differ-
ent multiple regressions, but it’s hard to tell say if this procedure should result in
t-stats > 2.0 in simple long-short portfolios.
   Overall, the individual reproduced t-stats in Table 3 are almost uniformly
consistent with the original study’s predictability evidence. Reproduced t-stats
much less than 2.0 are in almost every case associated with original t-stats that
are middling and use multi-variate regressions (Abarbanell and Bushee’s (1998)
sales gross to overhead growth), use specialized data that we did not employ
(Amihud and Mendelson (1986)), or use nonstandard methodologies that we did
not use (Haugen and Baker (1996)).


4.1.2.   Categorization of Not-Predictors and Indirect Signals

   Table 4 shows that the not-predictors have a straightforward definition. Most
not-predictors had t-stats < 1.96 in long-short portfolios in the original studies
(Ang, Chen, and Xing’s (2006) past downside beta; Anderson, Ghysels, and Juer-
gens’s (2005) long-term forecast dispersion; Whited and Wu’s (2006) financial
constraints index). It’s important to mention that this lack of significance should
not be considered a criticism of the original papers. The 5% significance cutoff is
arbitrary, and some of these predictors fall just below the cutoff.
   Many indirect signals simply did not come with predictability evidence in the
original papers. Accrual quality, earnings conservatism, and earnings value rel-
evance all come from Francis et al. (2004), which studies characteristics that are
related to an implied cost of capital estimate based on Value Line’s price targets.
This paper does not, however, examine return prediction. Belo, Lin, and Baz-
dresch’s (2014) model features a variable called brand capital, but the paper does
not examine the predictive power of this variable.
   Other indirect signals came with predictability-related information in the
original papers, but we judged this evidence as too weak allow us to judge sta-
tistically significant predictability in portfolio sorts. Several of these weak ev-
idence predictors come from Acharya and Pedersen’s (2005) study of liquidity


                                          21

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
betas. Acharya and Pedersen estimated market prices of risk for these betas in
a GMM framework, which would imply predictability if the parameters are very
stable. But since betas tend to be unstable (Ang, Chen, and Xing 2006, for ex-
ample) we judge this GMM result insufficient for judging the results of portfo-
lio sorts. Similarly, we judged the multi-variate regressions of Abarbanell and
Bushee (1998) and Soliman (2008) provide insufficient information for our pur-
poses when the coefficient on a regressor is insignificant.
   But the bulk of the indirect signals are Hou, Xue, and Zhang’s (2020) varia-
tions on characteristics in other studies. These characteristics are noted as “HXZ
variant” in the rightmost column of Table 4. Most of these modifications use
quarterly versions of annual accounting variables. A few involve arbitrary lags of
the denominator or using alternative factor model adjustments when generating
return residuals (as in idiosyncratic volatility).
   We refrain from assessing the predictor category of HXZ’s variants, because
some of them require subtle judgments. For example, HXZ’s produce a quarterly
version of Whited and Wu’s (2006), which produced a t-stat of 1.2 in the original
paper. It’s very hard to say whether a more timely version of this variable would
lead to statistical significance. Similarly, it’s hard to say if a quarterly version of an
annual accounting-based variable will have too much seasonality to be predic-
tive. The seasonality would depend on the precise details, and we did not want to
exercise this much judgment. We decided, therefore, to simply label all of HXZ’s
variants as indirect signals.
   Nevertheless, inspection of Table 4 shows that almost all of HXZ’s variants
demonstrate the robustness of the original results. Chan, Lakonishok, and
Sougiannis’s (2001) find that R&D to sales fails to predict returns, and our repro-
duction of HXZ’s quarterly version also fails to achieve statistical significance.
Meanwhile, our reproductions of HXZ’s variations on Anderson and Garcia-
Feijoo’s (2006) capx growth, Ball et al.’s (2016) cash-based operating profitability,
and Lakonishok, Shleifer, and Vishny’s (1994) cash flow to market are all statisti-
cally significant, consistent with the original constructions.


4.2.    Reproduction Failures and Struggles

   Despite the overwhelming success in aggregate, Tables 2 and 3 illustrate how
our reproductions struggle or even fail in a few instances. As emphasized in
the introduction, these failures should not be taken as criticisms of the original

                                           22

             Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
papers, as it is quite likely that there are coding errors or remaining deviations
among our hundreds of reproduced characteristics.
   The smallest reproduced t-stat among our clear predictors (Table 2) is Cre-
mers and Nair’s (2005) (CN) takeover vulnerability. Our t-stat is just 1.00 with a
mean return of 25 bps per month, despite the fact that the original paper found a
t-stat of 3.1 and an alpha of 90 bps per month. Our t-stat uses raw mean returns,
while CN’s t-stat uses the Carhart (1997) four-factor alpha, however, CN also re-
port a very large raw return spread of 75 bps per month. Moreover, we also had
trouble reproducing CN’s active shareholders predictor, which we categorized as
a “likely predictor.” As seen in Table 3, our reproduction produced a t-stat of 1.02,
compared to the original t-stat of 2.04.
   The second smallest t-stat comes from our reproduction of Cohen, Diether,
and Malloy’s (2013) R&D ability. Our reproduction achieves a positive but in-
significant t-stat of 1.50, compared to the original paper’s t-stat of 2.6. Cohen,
Diether, and Malloy measure R&D ability by a rolling estimation of a sales fore-
casting model that involves several lags of R&D. As R&D is prone to missing and
zero values, it is quite possible that we failed to follow the exact same procedures
as the original authors.
   Among our clear predictors, the only other t-stat < 1.96 is Pástor and Stam-
baugh’s (2003) liquidity beta. However, our reproduced t-stat is 1.93, just a hair
below the arbitrary cutoff of 1.96, and not far from the original CAPM-adjusted t-
stat of 2.5. We should note that we only aim to reproduce Pastor and Stambaugh,
and other replication papers find that this predictor is sensitive to construction
details (Li, Novy-Marx, and Velikov 2019; Pontiff and Singla 2019).
   A few clear predictors have reproduced t-stats that are notably smaller than
the originals, despite being larger than the 1.96 cutoff. The acronyms for these
predictors are clearly seen in Figure 3, and the details of these predictors can be
found in Table 2.
   Several of these predictors come from accounting papers that lag annual ac-
counting data by only 3 or 4 months rather than the 6 months used in the fi-
nance literature (Piotroski 2000; Xie (2001); Mohanram 2005). Similarly, we de-
viate from Johnson and So (2012) in rebalancing our portfolios monthly rather
than weekly. Intuitively, these more timely signals would produce notably higher
returns, and we do not judge these deviations as reproduction failures.
   Another underperforming reproduction is Elgers, Lo, and Pfeiffer’s (2001)


                                           23

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
earnings forecast to price, which in our data has a t-stat of 2.6, far lower than
the original t-stat of 5. The original t-stat was size-adjusted, however, and other
tables in this paper also show substantial size effects in their data.
   The last clear predictor struggle worth mentioning comes from our repro-
duction of Boudoukh et al.’s (2007) payout yield portfolio. For this predictor,
we chose to deviate from the original paper in a subtle way. At the very end of
the original paper, the authors offer a long-short strategy that produces a t-stat
of 3.92 from a tercile sort with NYSE breakpoints. We found our reproduction
of this strategy was sensitive to how we lagged the signal before merging with
return data, and that the more robust lagging method generated a very small t-
stat. However, NYSE terciles seemed unnecessarily conservative and moreover,
Boudoukh et al. (2007) show a decile sort as their first predictability table, which
we can reproduce quite well. Thus, our implementation follows this decile sort,
though they do not provide a long-short t-stat for this procedure. All told, we
judge this predictor to have replicated reasonably well.
   Among likely predictors (Table 3), most of the apparent reproduction failures
are simply due to deviations between our reproduction attempts and the original
papers. Amihud and Mendelson (1986), Barber et al. (2001), and Barry and Brown
(1984) all use specialized datasets that we do not have access to (see Section 2).
We also did not employ the multivariate regressions of Abarbanell and Bushee
(1998), the aggregation of 180 multiple regressions used by Haugen and Baker
(1996), or the specialized portfolio sort used by Frazzini and Pedersen (2014).
   The most notable likely predictors in terms of reproduction difficulty come
from Frankel and Lee (1998). This paper uses analyst forecasts and a present
value model to generate three trading strategies that we reproduce. Our repro-
ductions lead to t-stats between 0.96 and 2.01, despite the fact that the original
paper finds 1% statistical significance across the board. However, this high sta-
tistical significance was “derived using Monte Carlo simulation,” and is hard to
square with their small return spreads and short 15-year sample. Indeed, we find
that B/M is much less significant in their sample than the high significance they
show using their Monte Carlo test. In short, we attribute our smaller t-stats to de-
viations in methodology rather than failed reproductions, but reasonable people
can disagree on how to evaluate these reproductions.




                                          24

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
4.3.     Extremely Strong Predictors

     Figure 3 showed that many reproductions achieve huge t-stats of 6.0 or more.
The corresponding p-value is 0.000000002, implying that it is absurdly unlikely
that these predictors are drawn from the null of no predictability. Indeed, Chen
(Forthcoming) argues that it would take in expectation at least 400 years to gen-
erate these predictors from p-hacking alone. Consistent with this argument,
Harvey, Liu, and Zhu’s (2016) SMM estimates and Chordia, Goyal, and Saretto’s
(2020) calibrations imply that t-stats in excess of 4.0 are almost guaranteed to be
true discoveries.
     Table 2 takes a closer look at these predictors. Almost all of these outstanding
predictors focus on accounting data, analyst forecasts, or stock prices. Stated
differently, almost none of them come from the more exotic data categories.
     These outstanding performers are quite diverse.          They include earnings
surprise streaks (Loh and Warachka 2012); net external financing (Bradshaw,
Richardson, and Sloan 2006), change in recommendation (Jegadeesh et al. 2004),
return seasonality (Heston and Sadka 2008), conglomerate return (Cohen and
Lou 2012), dividend seasonality (Hartzmark and Solomon 2013), employment
growth (Belo, Lin, and Bazdresch 2014), asset growth (Cooper, Gulen, and
Schill 2008), change in taxes (Thomas and Zhang 2002), and enterprise multi-
ple (Loughran and Wellman 2011). These predictors lack any obvious economic
connection, consistent with the near zero median correlation we find among
clear predictors (Section 5.1). However, these predictors do have in common
extremely large t-stats in the original papers, as seen in Table 2 and Figure 3.



5.       Additional Evidence of Dataset Quality

     This section provides additional results on our dataset’s quality. We limit this
analysis to the 205 clear and likely predictors. We refer to clear and likely predic-
tors as just “predictors,” for short. We focus on predictors here because evalu-
ating the quality of not-predictors and indirect signals is a much more compli-
cated.
     The section shows that the dataset contains many distinct predictors (Sec-
tion 5.1) and that the portfolio returns decline if we impose different liquidity
adjustments (Section 5.2) or decrease the rebalancing frequency (Section 5.3).


                                           25

             Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
These results also provide useful benchmark numbers regarding liquidity effects.
Namely, imposing value-weighting or market equity screens reduces mean re-
turns by roughly a factor of 1/3.


5.1.    Distinct Predictors

   In selecting characteristics, we aim primarily for complete coverage of previ-
ous meta-studies (Section 2.1). We make no attempt to eliminate predictors due
to subjective similarities.
   Thus, we include several profitability-related predictors including those from
Fama and French (2006); Balakrishnan, Bartov, and Faurel (2010); and Novy-
Marx (2013). Being liberal about distinct predictors is necessary as there is, as
of yet, no established methodology for determining distinct predictors. By in-
cluding all predictors, we allow future users of our code and data to make their
own determination on which version of profitability is the “right” one.
   Despite this potential redundancy, a simple analysis suggests that this dataset
is very high-dimensional. Figure 9 examines this question by showing distribu-
tions of correlations.

 [Figure 9 “Correlations Between Pairs of Predictors or Portfolio Returns” about
                                        here.]

   Panel (a) shows correlations at the characteristic level. It shows the distri-
bution of pairwise rank correlations between stock-level predictors (characteris-
tics). Before computing correlations, we sign all predictors so that a higher pre-
dictor value implies higher mean returns based on the original papers. The panel
shows that predictor-level pairwise correlations are generally close to zero, sug-
gesting that the predictors contain distinct information. These results are con-
sistent with Green, Hand, and Zhang (2013) who also find correlations close to
zero among their set of 39 readily programmed predictors.
   Panel (b) shows this high dimensionality extends to the portfolio level. It
also shows the distribution of pairwise correlations, this time using pairs of long-
short portfolio returns. As with all of our long-short predictor portfolios, portfo-
lios are signed to have positive mean returns following the original papers. Simi-
lar to the predictor correlations, portfolio return correlations are close to zero for
the bulk of the distribution. Indeed the vast majority of correlations lie between
-0.5 and +0.5.

                                          26

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
       Panels (c) and (d) examine whether the HML and momentum factors sub-
sume our long-short portfolios. HML and momentum factors are both down-
loaded from Ken French’s website and constructed from 2x3 sorts following Fama
and French (1993). That is, (1) stocks are independently assigned to “S” or “B”
based on the NYSE median size and “H” or “L” based on the 30th and 70th per-
centiles of either B/M or the past year’s return within NYSE stocks, (2) value-
weighted portfolios are formed for S/L, B/L, S/H, and B/H intersections, and (3)
factor returns computed as 0.5(S/H+B/H) - 0.5(S/L+B/L). In contrast, our B/M
and momentum portfolios are just single sorts. We follow Rosenberg, Reid, and
Lanstein (1985), Fama and French (1992), and Jegadeesh and Titman (1993) in
constructing these portfolios, and like most of our predictors these original pa-
pers do not employ the Fama and French (1993) 2x3 factor construction for their
anomaly strategies.21
       Panel (c) shows that a handful of our portfolios have correlations of 0.6 of
more with HML, but the bulk of the correlation distribution remains close to
zero. Panel (d) shows a similar result for the momentum factor. Overall, our
long-short portfolios contain many distinct strategies, consistent with McLean
and Pontiff’s (2016) finding of a near zero average correlation among their repro-
ducted returns.


5.2.       Performance by Liquidity Adjustment

       Following our philosophy of “reproduction,” our baseline portfolios follow
the original papers as much as possible (Sections 2.2.1-2.2.2). These portfolios
likely overstate the profits traders could have earned from these predictors, how-
ever, as most anomaly papers use equal-weighting (Green, Hand, and Zhang
2013). Equal-weighted portfolios require the trading of illiquid stocks and huge
transaction costs (Novy-Marx and Velikov 2016, for example).
       Figure 10 examines how simple liquidity adjustments affect predictor perfor-
mance. The figure shows jitter plots of in-sample mean returns, comparing the
original paper’s adjustments (if any) to various liquidity screens as well as the en-
forcement of value-weighting. The original liquidity adjustments can be found
  21
    Rosenberg, Reid, and Lanstein (1985) use a complicated procedure to remove exposure to a
variety of “risk indexes,” which is similar in spirit to the Fama and French (1993) 2x3 approach in
that they both remove exposure to size. However, Rosenberg et al’s procedure is not very trans-
parent and difficult to implement, so we just use our default quintile sort for simplicity and trans-
parency.


                                                 27

               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
in our hand-collected data at www.openassetpricing.com.

              [Figure 10 “Performance by Liquidity Screen” about here.]

      Intuitively, all liquidity adjustments lead to lower mean returns. The price
screen (limiting to stocks with share price > $5) appears to be the softest ad-
justment, producing the smallest decline in performance. The other liquidity
adjustments have relatively similar effects.
      Overall, simple liquidity adjustments reduce mean returns by a factor of
about 1/3, on average. The typical mean return drops from around 60 bps
per month to about 40 bps per month regardless of whether the adjustment
is an NYSE only screen, a market equity screen, or the enforcement of value-
weighting. These results are quantitatively similar to Chen and Velikov (2019),
who find that effective bid-ask spreads eliminate about 1/3 of mean returns in-
sample, even after cost-mitigation.
      Figure 10 also illustrates the flexibility of our code. These various screens are
made possible by the fact that we try to delay imposing screens until the portfolio
generation step. As a result, the user can choose whether he or she wishes to take
signal from all stocks, or just the more liquid ones.


5.3.      Performance by Rebalancing Frequency

      Our code also allows for a flexible choice of the rebalancing frequency. More
precisely, the code allows the user to choose how often stocks are re-assigned
to portfolios. We refer to this as “rebalancing,” following the cross-sectional lit-
erature.22 This flexibility may be important, for example, when accounting for
trading costs.
      Figure 11 shows that our code leads to intuitive results when we alter the re-
balancing frequency. This figure plots the distribution of mean returns across
predictors for 1-, 3-, 6-, and 12-month rebalancing. For comparison, we also
show results using the rebalancing frequency in the original papers.
      [Figure 11 “Performance by Rebalancing Frequency” about here.]
 22
    Following the cross-sectional literature, our portfolios are always rebalanced monthly
in the sense that stock weights are adjusted every month to provide equal- or value-
weighting.   Most papers do not provide precise explanations of these details, but in
our experience this procedure is required for replicating papers. For an explicit exam-
ple, see https://wrds-www.wharton.upenn.edu/pages/support/applications/risk-factors-and-
industry-benchmarks/fama-french-factors/.


                                            28

              Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
     Rebalancing at a monthly frequency leads to slightly higher mean returns
compared to the original specifications. This is due to the fact that many of the
original papers follow Fama and French (1992) and rebalance annually (every
June).
     Performance declines monotonically as the rebalancing frequency decreases
from 1- to 12-months. This pattern is intuitive as less frequent rebalancing im-
plies less exposure to the predictive signal.



6.       Conclusion

     A series of influential critiques argue that the cross-sectional asset pricing lit-
erature cannot be trusted. Several papers argue that the statistics methods used
are outdated and that modern statistics imply that roughly half of the literature is
false (Harvey, Liu, and Zhu 2016; Linnainmaa and Roberts 2018; Chordia, Goyal,
and Saretto 2020). One heavily-cited study claims that, not only are the statis-
tical methods invalid, but the numbers cannot even be reproduced (Hou, Xue,
and Zhang 2020).
     Our open source dataset takes a basic step toward restoring trust in this lit-
erature. Our data shows that nearly 100% of the literature’s predictability re-
sults can be reproduced, and that predictability survives a number of robust-
ness tests including, out-of-sample performance, monotonicity, and a variety of
methodological choices. Being open source, our dataset also shows how these
results are achieved. This reliability adds to the evidence that the cross-sectional
predictability literature is quite credible (McLean and Pontiff 2016; Jacobs and
Müller 2020; Chen and Zimmermann 2020; Jensen, Kelly, and Pedersen 2021).
     Our code is written explicitly with the user in mind. The structure is modular
and parallel, so that pieces of the code can be easily fixed or improved despite the
massive size of the entire package. We welcome users to examine and build on
our code by visiting www.openassetpricing.com. We hope this demonstration of
open collaboration inspires others to open up their analyses. In our view, a shift
toward openness is not only important for the profession’s understanding of risk
and return, it is also important for protecting the credibility of academic finance
in the eyes of the broader public.




                                           29

             Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
References

Abarbanell, Jeffery S and Brian J Bushee. “Abnormal returns to a fundamental
   analysis strategy”. Accounting Review (1998), pp. 19–45.
Acharya, Viral V and Lasse Heje Pedersen. “Asset pricing with liquidity risk”. Jour-
   nal of financial Economics 77.2 (2005), pp. 375–410.
Adrian, Tobias, Erkko Etula, and Tyler Muir. “Financial intermediaries and the
   cross-section of asset returns”. The Journal of Finance 69.6 (2014), pp. 2557–
   2596.
Ali, Ashiq, Lee-Seok Hwang, and Mark A Trombley. “Arbitrage risk and the book-
   to-market anomaly”. Journal of Financial Economics 69.2 (2003), pp. 355–373.
Alwathainani, Abdulaziz M. “Consistency of firms’ past financial performance
   measures and future returns”. The British Accounting Review 41.3 (2009),
   pp. 184–196.
Amihud, Yakov. “Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series ef-
   fects”. Journal of financial markets 5.1 (2002), pp. 31–56.
Amihud, Yakov and Haim Mendelson. “Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread”.
   Journal of financial Economics 17.2 (1986), pp. 223–249.
Anderson, Christopher W and Luis Garcia-Feijoo. “Empirical evidence on capi-
   tal investment, growth options, and security returns”. The Journal of Finance
   61.1 (2006), pp. 171–194.
Anderson, Evan W, Eric Ghysels, and Jennifer L Juergens. “Do heterogeneous be-
   liefs matter for asset pricing?” The Review of Financial Studies 18.3 (2005),
   pp. 875–924.
Ang, Andrew, Joseph Chen, and Yuhang Xing. “Downside risk”. The review of fi-
   nancial studies 19.4 (2006), pp. 1191–1239.
Ang, Andrew, Robert J Hodrick, Yuhang Xing, and Xiaoyan Zhang. “The cross-
   section of volatility and expected returns”. The Journal of Finance 61.1 (2006),
   pp. 259–299.
Asness, Clifford S, R Burt Porter, and Ross L Stevens. “Predicting stock returns
   using industry-relative firm characteristics”. Available at SSRN 213872 (2000).
Asquith, Paul, Parag A Pathak, and Jay R Ritter. “Short interest, institutional
   ownership, and stock returns”. Journal of Financial Economics 78.2 (2005),
   pp. 243–276.
Avramov, Doron, Tarun Chordia, Gergana Jostova, and Alexander Philipov. “Mo-
   mentum and credit rating”. The Journal of Finance 62.5 (2007), pp. 2503–2520.


                                          30

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Balakrishnan, Karthik, Eli Bartov, and Lucile Faurel. “Post loss/profit announce-
   ment drift”. Journal of Accounting and Economics 50.1 (2010), pp. 20–41.
Bali, Turan G, Nusret Cakici, and Robert F Whitelaw. “Maxing out: Stocks as lot-
   teries and the cross-section of expected returns”. Journal of Financial Eco-
   nomics 99.2 (2011), pp. 427–446.
Bali, Turan G, Robert F Engle, and Scott Murray. Empirical asset pricing: The cross
   section of stock returns. John Wiley & Sons, 2016.
Ball, Ray, Joseph Gerakos, Juhani T Linnainmaa, and Valeri Nikolaev. “Accruals,
   cash flows, and operating profitability in the cross section of stock returns”.
   Journal of Financial Economics 121.1 (2016), pp. 28–45.
Balvers, Ronald J and Dayong Huang. “Productivity-based asset pricing: Theory
   and evidence”. Journal of Financial Economics 86.2 (2007), pp. 405–445.
Bandyopadhyay, Sati P, Alan G Huang, and Tony S Wirjanto. “The accrual volatil-
   ity anomaly”. Unpublished Manuscript, University of Waterloo (2010).
Banz, Rolf W. “The relationship between return and market value of common
   stocks”. Journal of financial economics 9.1 (1981), pp. 3–18.
Barbee Jr, William C, Sandip Mukherji, and Gary A Raines. “Do sales–price and
   debt–equity explain stock returns better than book–market and firm size?”
   Financial Analysts Journal 52.2 (1996), pp. 56–60.
Barber, Brad, Reuven Lehavy, Maureen McNichols, and Brett Trueman. “Can
   investors profit from the prophets? Security analyst recommendations and
   stock returns”. The Journal of Finance 56.2 (2001), pp. 531–563.
Barry, Christopher B and Stephen J Brown. “Differential information and the
   small firm effect”. Journal of financial economics 13.2 (1984), pp. 283–294.
Barth, Mary E and Amy P Hutton. “Analyst earnings forecast revisions and the
   pricing of accruals”. Review of accounting studies 9.1 (2004), pp. 59–96.
Bartov, Eli and Myungsun Kim. “Risk, mispricing, and value investing”. Review of
   Quantitative Finance and Accounting 23.4 (2004), pp. 353–376.
Basu, Sanjoy. “Investment performance of common stocks in relation to their
   price-earnings ratios: A test of the efficient market hypothesis”. The journal
   of Finance 32.3 (1977), pp. 663–682.
Belo, Frederico and Xiaoji Lin. “The inventory growth spread”. The Review of Fi-
   nancial Studies 25.1 (2012), pp. 278–313.
Belo, Frederico, Xiaoji Lin, and Santiago Bazdresch. “Labor hiring, investment,
   and stock return predictability in the cross section”. Journal of Political Econ-
   omy 122.1 (2014), pp. 129–177.


                                          31

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Belo, Frederico, Xiaoji Lin, and Maria Ana Vitorino. “Brand capital and firm
   value”. Review of Economic Dynamics 17.1 (2014), pp. 150–169.
Bettis, Richard A. “The search for asterisks: Compromised statistical tests and
   flawed theories”. Strategic Management Journal 33.1 (2012), pp. 108–113.
Bhandari, Laxmi Chand. “Debt/equity ratio and expected common stock re-
   turns: Empirical evidence”. The journal of finance 43.2 (1988), pp. 507–528.
Blitz, David, Joop Huij, and Martin Martens. “Residual momentum”. Journal of
   Empirical Finance 18.3 (2011), pp. 506–521.
Blume, Marshall E. and Frank Husic. “Price, beta, and exchange listing”. Journal
   of Finance 28.2 (1972), pp. 283–299.
Bordalo, Pedro, Nicola Gennaioli, Rafael La Porta, and Andrei Shleifer. “Diag-
   nostic expectations and stock returns”. The Journal of Finance 74.6 (2019),
   pp. 2839–2874.
Boudoukh, Jacob, Roni Michaely, Matthew Richardson, and Michael R Roberts.
   “On the importance of measuring payout yield: Implications for empirical
   asset pricing”. The Journal of Finance 62.2 (2007), pp. 877–915.
Bradshaw, Mark T, Scott A Richardson, and Richard G Sloan. “The relation be-
   tween corporate financing activities, analysts’ forecasts and stock returns”.
   Journal of accounting and economics 42.1-2 (2006), pp. 53–85.
Brennan, Michael J, Tarun Chordia, and Avanidhar Subrahmanyam. “Alterna-
   tive factor specifications, security characteristics, and the cross-section of ex-
   pected stock returns”. Journal of financial Economics 49.3 (1998), pp. 345–
   373.
Brown, David P and Bradford Rowe. “The productivity premium in equity re-
   turns”. Available at SSRN 993467 (2007).
Callen, Jeffrey L, Mozaffar Khan, and Hai Lu. “Accounting quality, stock price de-
   lay, and future stock returns”. Contemporary Accounting Research 30.1 (2013),
   pp. 269–295.
Campbell, John Y, Jens Hilscher, and Jan Szilagyi. “In search of distress risk”. The
   Journal of Finance 63.6 (2008), pp. 2899–2939.
Chan, Kevin C, Nai-fu Chen, and David A Hsieh. “An exploratory investigation of
   the firm size effect”. Journal of Financial Economics 14.3 (1985), pp. 451–471.
Chan, Louis KC, Narasimhan Jegadeesh, and Josef Lakonishok. “Momentum
   strategies”. The Journal of Finance 51.5 (1996), pp. 1681–1713.




                                          32

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Chan, Louis KC, Josef Lakonishok, and Theodore Sougiannis. “The stock market
   valuation of research and development expenditures”. The Journal of finance
   56.6 (2001), pp. 2431–2456.
Chandrashekar, Satyajit and Ramesh K. S. Rao. “The Productivity of Corporate
   Cash Holdings and the Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns”. Available
   at SSRN 1334162 (2007).
Chang, Andrew C and Phillip Li. “Is Economics Research Replicable? Sixty Pub-
   lished Papers From Thirteen Journals Say “Often Not””. Critical Finance Re-
   view 7 (2018).
Chen, Andrew Y. “Do T-Stat Hurdles Need to Be Raised?” Available at SSRN
   3254995 (2020).
— “The Limits of p-Hacking: Some Thought Experiments”. the Journal of Fi-
   nance (Forthcoming).
Chen, Andrew Y and Mihail Velikov. “Zeroing in on the Expected Returns of
   Anomalies”. Working Paper (2019).
Chen, Andrew Y and Tom Zimmermann. “Publication bias and the cross-section
   of stock returns”. The Review of Asset Pricing Studies 10.2 (2020), pp. 249–289.
Chen, Joseph, Harrison Hong, and Jeremy C Stein. “Breadth of ownership and
   stock returns”. Journal of financial Economics 66.2-3 (2002), pp. 171–205.
Chen, Long and Lu Zhang. “A better three-factor model that explains more
   anomalies”. Journal of Finance 65.2 (2010), pp. 563–595.
Chen, Nai-Fu, Richard Roll, and Stephen A Ross. “Economic forces and the stock
   market”. Journal of business (1986), pp. 383–403.
Chordia, Tarun, Amit Goyal, and Alessio Saretto. “Anomalies and false rejec-
   tions”. The Review of Financial Studies 33.5 (2020), pp. 2134–2179.
Chordia, Tarun, Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, and V Ravi Anshuman. “Trading ac-
   tivity and expected stock returns”. Journal of financial Economics 59.1 (2001),
   pp. 3–32.
Cohen, Lauren, Karl Diether, and Christopher Malloy. “Misvaluing innovation”.
   The Review of Financial Studies 26.3 (2013), pp. 635–666.
Cohen, Lauren and Andrea Frazzini. “Economic links and predictable returns”.
   The Journal of Finance 63.4 (2008), pp. 1977–2011.
Cohen, Lauren and Dong Lou. “Complicated firms”. Journal of financial eco-
   nomics 104.2 (2012), pp. 383–400.




                                         33

           Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Cooper, Michael J, Huseyin Gulen, and Michael J Schill. “Asset growth and the
   cross-section of stock returns”. the Journal of Finance 63.4 (2008), pp. 1609–
   1651.
Corwin, Shane A and Paul Schultz. “A simple way to estimate bid-ask spreads
   from daily high and low prices”. The Journal of Finance 67.2 (2012), pp. 719–
   760.
Cremers, KJ Martijn and Vinay B Nair. “Governance mechanisms and equity
   prices”. the Journal of Finance 60.6 (2005), pp. 2859–2894.
Cusatis, Patrick J, James A Miles, and J Randall Woolridge. “Restructuring through
   spinoffs: The stock market evidence”. Journal of Financial Economics 33.3
   (1993), pp. 293–311.
Da, Zhi. “Cash flow, consumption risk, and the cross-section of stock returns”.
   The Journal of Finance 64.2 (2009), pp. 923–956.
Da, Zhi and Mitch Warachka. “The disparity between long-term and short-term
   forecasted earnings growth”. Journal of Financial Economics 100.2 (2011),
   pp. 424–442.
Daniel, Kent and Sheridan Titman. “Market reactions to tangible and intangible
   information”. The Journal of Finance 61.4 (2006), pp. 1605–1643.
Datar, Vinay T, Narayan Y Naik, and Robert Radcliffe. “Liquidity and stock re-
   turns: An alternative test”. Journal of financial markets 1.2 (1998), pp. 203–
   219.
De Bondt, Werner FM and Richard Thaler. “Does the stock market overreact?”
   The Journal of finance 40.3 (1985), pp. 793–805.
Dechow, Patricia M, Amy P Hutton, Lisa Meulbroek, and Richard G Sloan. “Short-
   sellers, fundamental analysis, and stock returns”. Journal of financial Eco-
   nomics 61.1 (2001), pp. 77–106.
Dechow, Patricia M, Richard G Sloan, and Mark T Soliman. “Implied equity dura-
   tion: A new measure of equity risk”. Review of Accounting Studies 9.2 (2004),
   pp. 197–228.
DeMiguel, Victor, Alberto Martin-Utrera, Francisco J Nogales, and Raman Uppal.
   “A transaction-cost perspective on the multitude of firm characteristics”. The
   Review of Financial Studies 33.5 (2020), pp. 2180–2222.
Desai, Hemang, Shivaram Rajgopal, and Mohan Venkatachalam. “Value-glamour
   and accruals mispricing: One anomaly or two?” The Accounting Review 79.2
   (2004), pp. 355–385.




                                         34

           Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Detzel, Andrew, Robert Novy-Marx, and Mihail Velikov. “Model selection with
   transaction costs”. available at SSRN 3088828 (2019).
Dewald, William G, Jerry G Thursby, and Richard G Anderson. “Replication in
   empirical economics: The journal of money, credit and banking project”. The
   American Economic Review (1986), pp. 587–603.
Dharan, Bala G and David L Ikenberry. “The long-run negative drift of post-
   listing stock returns”. The Journal of Finance 50.5 (1995), pp. 1547–1574.
Dichev, Ilia D. “Is the risk of bankruptcy a systematic risk?” the Journal of Finance
   53.3 (1998), pp. 1131–1147.
Dichev, Ilia D and Joseph D Piotroski. “The long-run stock returns following bond
   ratings changes”. The Journal of Finance 56.1 (2001), pp. 173–203.
Diether, Karl B, Christopher J Malloy, and Anna Scherbina. “Differences of opin-
   ion and the cross section of stock returns”. The Journal of Finance 57.5 (2002),
   pp. 2113–2141.
Dimson, Elroy. “Risk measurement when shares are subject to infrequent trad-
   ing”. Journal of Financial Economics 7.2 (1979), pp. 197–226.
Doyle, Jeffrey T, Russell J Lundholm, and Mark T Soliman. “The predictive value
   of expenses excluded from pro forma earnings”. Review of Accounting Studies
   8.2 (2003), pp. 145–174.
Easley, David, Soeren Hvidkjaer, and Maureen O’hara. “Is information risk a de-
   terminant of asset returns?” The journal of finance 57.5 (2002), pp. 2185–2221.
Eberhart, Allan C, William F Maxwell, and Akhtar R Siddique. “An examination
   of long-term abnormal stock returns and operating performance following
   R&D increases”. The Journal of Finance 59.2 (2004), pp. 623–650.
Eisfeldt, Andrea L and Dimitris Papanikolaou. “Organization capital and the
   cross-section of expected returns”. The Journal of Finance 68.4 (2013),
   pp. 1365–1406.
Elgers, Pieter T, May H Lo, and Ray J Pfeiffer. “Delayed security price adjustments
   to financial analysts’ forecasts of annual earnings”. The Accounting Review
   76.4 (2001), pp. 613–632.
Fairfield, Patricia M, Scott Whisenant, and Teri Lombardi Yohn. “Accrued earn-
   ings and growth: Implications for earnings persistence and market mispric-
   ing”. Accounting Review 78.1 (2003).
Fama, E.F. and K.R. French. “Common risk factors in the returns on stocks and
   bonds”. Journal of financial economics 33.1 (1993), pp. 3–56.




                                          35

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Fama, Eugene F and Kenneth R French. “A five-factor asset pricing model”. Jour-
   nal of financial economics 116.1 (2015), pp. 1–22.
— “Profitability, investment and average returns”. Journal of financial eco-
   nomics 82.3 (2006), pp. 491–518.
— “The cross-section of expected stock returns”. the Journal of Finance 47.2
   (1992), pp. 427–465.
Fama, Eugene F and James D MacBeth. “Risk, return, and equilibrium: Empirical
   tests”. Journal of political economy 81.3 (1973), pp. 607–636.
Foster, George, Chris Olsen, and Terry Shevlin. “Earnings releases, anomalies,
   and the behavior of security returns”. Accounting Review (1984), pp. 574–603.
Francis, Jennifer, Ryan LaFond, Per Olsson, and Katherine Schipper. “The market
   pricing of accruals quality”. Journal of accounting and economics 39.2 (2005),
   pp. 295–327.
Francis, Jennifer, Ryan LaFond, Per M Olsson, and Katherine Schipper. “Costs of
   equity and earnings attributes”. The accounting review 79.4 (2004), pp. 967–
   1010.
Frankel, Richard and Charles MC Lee. “Accounting valuation, market expecta-
   tion, and cross-sectional stock returns”. Journal of Accounting and economics
   25.3 (1998), pp. 283–319.
Franzoni, Francesco and Jose M Marin. “Pension plan funding and stock market
   efficiency”. the Journal of Finance 61.2 (2006), pp. 921–956.
Frazzini, Andrea and Lasse Heje Pedersen. “Betting against beta”. Journal of Fi-
   nancial Economics 111.1 (2014), pp. 1–25.
Freyberger, Joachim, Andreas Neuhierl, and Michael Weber. “Dissecting char-
   acteristics nonparametrically”. The Review of Financial Studies 33.5 (2020),
   pp. 2326–2377.
Gebhardt, William R, Charles MC Lee, and Bhaskaran Swaminathan. “Toward an
   implied cost of capital”. Journal of accounting research 39.1 (2001), pp. 135–
   176.
George, Thomas J and Chuan-Yang Hwang. “The 52-week high and momentum
   investing”. The Journal of Finance 59.5 (2004), pp. 2145–2176.
Gettleman, Eric and Joseph M Marks. “Acceleration strategies”. SSRN Electronic
   Journal (2006).
Gompers, Paul, Joy Ishii, and Andrew Metrick. “Corporate governance and equity
   prices”. The quarterly journal of economics 118.1 (2003), pp. 107–156.




                                         36

           Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Green, Jeremiah, John RM Hand, and X Frank Zhang. “The characteristics that
   provide independent information about average us monthly stock returns”.
   The Review of Financial Studies (2017), hhx019.
— “The supraview of return predictive signals”. Review of Accounting Studies
   18.3 (2013), pp. 692–730.
Guo, Re-Jin, Baruch Lev, and Charles Shi. “Explaining the Short-and Long-Term
   IPO Anomalies in the US by R&D”. Journal of Business Finance & Accounting
   33.3-4 (2006), pp. 550–579.
Hafzalla, Nader, Russell Lundholm, and E Matthew Van Winkle. “Percent accru-
   als”. The Accounting Review 86.1 (2011), pp. 209–236.
Hahn, Jaehoon and Hangyong Lee. “Financial constraints, debt capacity, and the
   cross-section of stock returns”. The Journal of Finance 64.2 (2009), pp. 891–
   921.
Hartzmark, Samuel M and David H Solomon. “The dividend month premium”.
   Journal of Financial Economics 109.3 (2013), pp. 640–660.
Harvey, Campbell R and Yan Liu. “A census of the factor zoo”. Available at SSRN
   3341728 (2019).
Harvey, Campbell R, Yan Liu, and Heqing Zhu. “... and the cross-section of ex-
   pected returns”. The Review of Financial Studies 29.1 (2016), pp. 5–68.
Harvey, Campbell R and Akhtar Siddique. “Conditional skewness in asset pricing
   tests”. The Journal of finance 55.3 (2000), pp. 1263–1295.
Haugen, Robert A and Nardin L Baker. “Commonality in the determinants of ex-
   pected stock returns”. Journal of financial economics 41.3 (1996), pp. 401–439.
Heston, Steven L and Ronnie Sadka. “Seasonality in the cross-section of stock
   returns”. Journal of Financial Economics 87.2 (2008), pp. 418–445.
Hirshleifer, David, Kewei Hou, Siew Hong Teoh, and Yinglei Zhang. “Do investors
   overvalue firms with bloated balance sheets?” Journal of Accounting and Eco-
   nomics 38 (2004), pp. 297–331.
Hirshleifer, David, Po-Hsuan Hsu, and Dongmei Li. “Innovative efficiency and
   stock returns”. Journal of Financial Economics 107.3 (2013), pp. 632–654.
Holthausen, Robert W and David F Larcker. “The prediction of stock returns us-
   ing financial statement information”. Journal of accounting and economics
   15.2-3 (1992), pp. 373–411.
Hong, Harrison and Marcin Kacperczyk. “The price of sin: The effects of social
   norms on markets”. Journal of financial economics 93.1 (2009), pp. 15–36.




                                         37

           Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Hou, Kewei. “Industry information diffusion and the lead-lag effect in stock re-
   turns”. The Review of Financial Studies 20.4 (2007), pp. 1113–1138.
Hou, Kewei and Roger K Loh. “Have we solved the idiosyncratic volatility puz-
   zle?” Journal of Financial Economics 121.1 (2016), pp. 167–194.
Hou, Kewei and Tobias J Moskowitz. “Market frictions, price delay, and the cross-
   section of expected returns”. The Review of Financial Studies 18.3 (2005),
   pp. 981–1020.
Hou, Kewei and David T Robinson. “Industry concentration and average stock
   returns”. The Journal of Finance 61.4 (2006), pp. 1927–1956.
Hou, Kewei, Chen Xue, and Lu Zhang. “Digesting anomalies: An investment ap-
   proach”. The Review of Financial Studies 28.3 (2015), pp. 650–705.
— “Replicating anomalies”. The Review of Financial Studies 33.5 (2020),
   pp. 2019–2133.
Ikenberry, David, Josef Lakonishok, and Theo Vermaelen. “Market underreac-
   tion to open market share repurchases”. Journal of financial economics 39.2-3
   (1995), pp. 181–208.
Ioannidis, John PA. “Why most published research findings are false”. PLoS
   medicine 2.8 (2005), e124.
Jacobs, Heiko and Sebastian Müller. “Anomalies across the globe: Once public,
   no longer existent?” Journal of Financial Economics 135.1 (2020), pp. 213–230.
Jegadeesh, Narasimhan. “Evidence of predictable behavior of security returns”.
   The Journal of finance 45.3 (1990), pp. 881–898.
Jegadeesh, Narasimhan, Joonghyuk Kim, Susan D Krische, and Charles MC Lee.
   “Analyzing the analysts: When do recommendations add value?” The journal
   of finance 59.3 (2004), pp. 1083–1124.
Jegadeesh, Narasimhan and Joshua Livnat. “Revenue surprises and stock re-
   turns”. Journal of Accounting and Economics 41.1-2 (2006), pp. 147–171.
Jegadeesh, Narasimhan and Sheridan Titman. “Returns to buying winners and
   selling losers: Implications for stock market efficiency”. The Journal of finance
   48.1 (1993), pp. 65–91.
Jensen, Theis Ingerslev, Bryan T Kelly, and Lasse Heje Pedersen. Is There A Repli-
   cation Crisis In Finance? Tech. rep. National Bureau of Economic Research,
   2021.
Johnson, Travis L and Eric C So. “The option to stock volume ratio and future
   returns”. Journal of Financial Economics 106.2 (2012), pp. 262–286.




                                         38

           Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Kelly, Bryan and Hao Jiang. “Tail risk and asset prices”. The Review of Financial
   Studies 27.10 (2014), pp. 2841–2871.
Kot, Hung Wan and Kalok Chan. “Can contrarian strategies improve momentum
   profits”. Journal of Investment Management 4.1 (2006).
La Porta, Rafael. “Expectations and the cross-section of stock returns”. The Jour-
   nal of Finance 51.5 (1996), pp. 1715–1742.
Lakonishok, Josef, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert W Vishny. “Contrarian invest-
   ment, extrapolation, and risk”. The journal of finance 49.5 (1994), pp. 1541–
   1578.
Lamont, Owen, Christopher Polk, and Jesus Saa-Requejo. “Financial Constraints
   and Stock Returns”. The Review of Financial Studies 14.2 (2001), pp. 529–554.
Landsman, Wayne R, Bruce L Miller, Ken Peasnell, and Shu Yeh. “Do investors
   understand really dirty surplus?” The Accounting Review 86.1 (2011), pp. 237–
   258.
Lee, Charles MC and Bhaskaran Swaminathan. “Price momentum and trading
   volume”. the Journal of Finance 55.5 (2000), pp. 2017–2069.
Lerman, Alina, Joshua Livnat, and Richard R Mendenhall. “The high-volume re-
   turn premium and post-earnings announcement drift”. Available at SSRN
   1122463 (2008).
Lettau, M. and S. Ludvigson. “Resurrecting the (C) CAPM: A cross-sectional test
   when risk premia are time-varying”. Journal of Political Economy (2001),
   pp. 1238–1287.
Lev, Baruch and Doron Nissim. “Taxable income, future earnings, and equity val-
   ues”. The accounting review 79.4 (2004), pp. 1039–1074.
Li, Dongmei. “Financial constraints, R&D investment, and stock returns”. The
   Review of Financial Studies 24.9 (2011), pp. 2974–3007.
Li, Hongtao, Robert Novy-Marx, and Mihail Velikov. “Liquidity Risk and Asset
   Pricing”. Critical Finance Review 8.1-2 (2019), pp. 223–255.
Linnainmaa, Juhani T and Michael R Roberts. “The history of the cross-section
   of stock returns”. The Review of Financial Studies 31.7 (2018), pp. 2606–2649.
Liu, Weimin. “A liquidity-augmented capital asset pricing model”. Journal of fi-
   nancial Economics 82.3 (2006), pp. 631–671.
Lockwood, Larry and Wikrom Prombutr. “Sustainable growth and stock returns”.
   Journal of Financial Research 33.4 (2010), pp. 519–538.
Loh, Roger K and Mitch Warachka. “Streaks in earnings surprises and the cross-
   section of stock returns”. Management Science 58.7 (2012), pp. 1305–1321.


                                         39

           Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Lou, Dong. “Attracting investor attention through advertising”. The Review of Fi-
   nancial Studies 27.6 (2014), pp. 1797–1829.
Loughran, Tim and Jay W Wellman. “New evidence on the relation between
   the enterprise multiple and average stock returns”. Journal of Financial and
   Quantitative Analysis (2011), pp. 1629–1650.
Lyandres, Evgeny, Le Sun, and Lu Zhang. “The new issues puzzle: Testing the
   investment-based explanation”. The Review of Financial Studies 21.6 (2008),
   pp. 2825–2855.
McCullough, Bruce D, Kerry Anne McGeary, and Teresa D Harrison. “Lessons
   from the JMCB Archive”. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking (2006),
   pp. 1093–1107.
McLean, R David and Jeffrey Pontiff. “Does academic research destroy stock re-
   turn predictability?” The Journal of Finance 71.1 (2016), pp. 5–32.
Menzly, Lior and Oguzhan Ozbas. “Market segmentation and cross-predictability
   of returns”. The Journal of Finance 65.4 (2010), pp. 1555–1580.
Michaely, Roni, Richard H Thaler, and Kent L Womack. “Price reactions to divi-
   dend initiations and omissions: Overreaction or drift?” the Journal of Finance
   50.2 (1995), pp. 573–608.
Mohanram, Partha S. “Separating winners from losers among lowbook-to-
   market stocks using financial statement analysis”. Review of accounting stud-
   ies 10.2-3 (2005), pp. 133–170.
Moskowitz, Tobias J and Mark Grinblatt. “Do industries explain momentum?”
   The Journal of finance 54.4 (1999), pp. 1249–1290.
Nagel, Stefan. “Short sales, institutional investors and the cross-section of stock
   returns”. Journal of financial economics 78.2 (2005), pp. 277–309.
Naranjo, Andy, M Nimalendran, and Mike Ryngaert. “Stock returns, dividend
   yields, and taxes”. The Journal of Finance 53.6 (1998), pp. 2029–2057.
Nguyen, Giao X and Peggy E Swanson. “Firm characteristics, relative efficiency,
   and equity returns”. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (2009),
   pp. 213–236.
Nosek, Brian A, Jeffrey R Spies, and Matt Motyl. “Scientific utopia: II. Restructur-
   ing incentives and practices to promote truth over publishability”. Perspec-
   tives on Psychological Science 7.6 (2012), pp. 615–631.
Novy-Marx, Robert. “Is momentum really momentum?” Journal of Financial
   Economics 103.3 (2012), pp. 429–453.
— “Operating leverage”. Review of Finance 15.1 (2011), pp. 103–134.


                                          40

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Novy-Marx, Robert. “The other side of value: The gross profitability premium”.
   Journal of financial economics 108.1 (2013), pp. 1–28.
Novy-Marx, Robert and Mihail Velikov. “A taxonomy of anomalies and their trad-
   ing costs”. The Review of Financial Studies 29.1 (2016), pp. 104–147.
— “Betting Against Betting Against Beta”. Journal of Financial Economics
   (Forthcoming).
Ortiz-Molina, Hernán and Gordon M Phillips. “Real asset illiquidity and the cost
   of capital”. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (2014), pp. 1–32.
Ou, Jane A and Stephen H Penman. “Accounting measurement, price-earnings
   ratio, and the information content of security prices”. Journal of accounting
   research 27 (1989), pp. 111–144.
— “Financial statement analysis and the prediction of stock returns”. Journal of
   accounting and economics 11.4 (1989), pp. 295–329.
Palazzo, Berardino. “Cash holdings, risk, and expected returns”. Journal of Finan-
   cial Economics 104.1 (2012), pp. 162–185.
Pástor, L’uboš and Robert F Stambaugh. “Liquidity risk and expected stock re-
   turns”. Journal of Political economy 111.3 (2003), pp. 642–685.
Penman, Stephen H, Scott A Richardson, and Irem Tuna. “The book-to-price ef-
   fect in stock returns: accounting for leverage”. Journal of accounting research
   45.2 (2007), pp. 427–467.
Piotroski, Joseph D. “Value investing: The use of historical financial statement
   information to separate winners from losers”. Journal of Accounting Research
   (2000), pp. 1–41.
Pontiff, Jeffrey and Rohit Singla. “Liquidity Risk?” Critical Finance Review 8.1-2
   (2019), pp. 257–276.
Pontiff, Jeffrey and Artemiza Woodgate. “Share issuance and cross-sectional re-
   turns”. The Journal of Finance 63.2 (2008), pp. 921–945.
Prakash, Rachna and Nishi Sinha. “Deferred revenues and the matching of
   revenues and expenses”. Contemporary Accounting Research 30.2 (2013),
   pp. 517–548.
Rajgopal, Shivaram, Terry Shevlin, and Mohan Venkatachalam. “Does the stock
   market fully appreciate the implications of leading indicators for future earn-
   ings? Evidence from order backlog”. Review of Accounting Studies 8.4 (2003),
   pp. 461–492.




                                         41

           Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Richardson, Scott A, Richard G Sloan, Mark T Soliman, and Irem Tuna. “Accrual
   reliability, earnings persistence and stock prices”. Journal of accounting and
   economics 39.3 (2005), pp. 437–485.
Ritter, Jay R. “The long-run performance of initial public offerings”. The journal
   of finance 46.1 (1991), pp. 3–27.
Rosenberg, Barr, Kenneth Reid, and Ronald Lanstein. “Persuasive evidence of
   market inefficiency”. The Journal of Portfolio Management 11.3 (1985), pp. 9–
   16.
Scherbina, Anna. “Suppressed negative information and future underperfor-
   mance”. Review of Finance 12.3 (2008), pp. 533–565.
Sloan, Richard G. “Do stock prices fully reflect information in accruals and cash
   flows about future earnings?” Accounting review (1996), pp. 289–315.
Soliman, Mark T. “The use of DuPont analysis by market participants”. The Ac-
   counting Review 83.3 (2008), pp. 823–853.
Spiess, D Katherine and John Affleck-Graves. “The long-run performance of
   stock returns following debt offerings”. Journal of Financial Economics 54.1
   (1999), pp. 45–73.
Thomas, Jacob and Frank X Zhang. “Tax expense momentum”. Journal of Ac-
   counting Research 49.3 (2011), pp. 791–821.
Thomas, Jacob K and Huai Zhang. “Inventory changes and future returns”. Re-
   view of Accounting Studies 7.2 (2002), pp. 163–187.
Titman, Sheridan, KC John Wei, and Feixue Xie. “Capital investments and stock
   returns”. Journal of financial and Quantitative Analysis 39.4 (2004), pp. 677–
   700.
Tuzel, Selale. “Corporate real estate holdings and the cross-section of stock re-
   turns”. The Review of Financial Studies 23.6 (2010), pp. 2268–2302.
Valta, Philip. “Strategic default, debt structure, and stock returns”. Journal of Fi-
   nancial and Quantitative Analysis (2016), pp. 197–229.
Vassalou, Maria. “News related to future GDP growth as a risk factor in equity
   returns”. Journal of financial economics 68.1 (2003), pp. 47–73.
Vora, Premal and Luis Palacios. Fama-French Factors. Tech. rep. Wharton Re-
   search Data Services, 2010.
Watkins, Boyce. “Riding the wave of sentiment: An analysis of return consistency
   as a predictor of future returns”. The Journal of Behavioral Finance 4.4 (2003),
   pp. 191–200.




                                          42

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Welch, Ivo. “Reproducing, Extending, Updating, Replicating, Reexamining, and
   Reconciling”. Critical Finance Review 8.1-2 (2019), pp. 301–304. ISSN: 2164-
   5744. URL: http://dx.doi.org/10.1561/104.00000082.
Whited, Toni M and Guojun Wu. “Financial constraints risk”. The Review of Fi-
   nancial Studies 19.2 (2006), pp. 531–559.
Xie, Hong. “The mispricing of abnormal accruals”. The accounting review 76.3
   (2001), pp. 357–373.
Xing, Yuhang, Xiaoyan Zhang, and Rui Zhao. “What does the individual option
   volatility smirk tell us about future equity returns?” Journal of Financial and
   Quantitative Analysis (2010), pp. 641–662.
Yan, Shu. “Jump risk, stock returns, and slope of implied volatility smile”. Journal
   of Financial Economics 99.1 (2011), pp. 216–233.




                                          43

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Figure 1: Illustration of Hand-Collection from Original Papers. Description:
The figure shows an excerpt from the spreadsheet we used to hand-collect pre-
dictability evidence from the original papers. The full spreadsheet can be found
at www.openassetpricing.com. Interpretation: Evidence required for evaluating
reproductions is documented at the characteristic level and readers can easily
trace our predictor categorizations to the original papers’ exhibits.




                                         44

           Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Figure 2: Reproduction Success Rates for Clear Predictors. Description: We
construct one long-short portfolio from each clear predictor following the origi-
nal papers’ results and examine the t-stat for the hypothesis that the mean return
is zero in the original papers’ sample periods. Clear predictors are those where
the original papers clearly demonstrate that our portfolios should be statistically
significant (see Section 2.3). Interpretation: Almost 100% of the cross-sectional
predictability literature can reproduced and our code and data show how.




                                          45

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                  Figure 3: Comparison of Reproduced Long-Short t-Stats with Original Long-Short t-Stats for All Predictors. Description: We compare repro-
                                                                  duced long-short t-stats (using original sample periods) to t-stats hand-collected from the original studies. We include both clear and likely predic-
                                                                  tors (defined in Section 2.3). We exclude t-stats from regressions and event studies, and also drop t-stats from three studies because our portfolios
                                                                  deviate significantly from the originals for idiosyncratic reasons (Barber et al. 2001, Frazzini and Pedersen 2014, Hou and Moskowitz 2005, see Sec-
                                                                  tion 2.2). Reproduced t-stats use raw returns but original t-stats may include factor or characteristic adjustments. Axes are log-scale to make the
                                                                  predictor acronyms easier to read. Full references are found in Tables 2 and 3. Regression fit uses OLS in levels, though logs leads to similar results.
                                                                  Interpretation: The overwhelming reproduction success in Figure 2 is not due to predictor categorizations or marginally significant reproductions.
                                                                  Our reproduced t-stats quantitatively match the original papers’ for both clear and likely predictors.




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626




                                46
Figure 4: Reproduced vs Original t-Stats by Subsets of Predictors. Description:
We compare reproduced t-stats (original sample period) to original t-stats. Top
panels show subsets based on based on year of publication. Bottom panels show
subsets based the journal. JF, RFS, and JFE are the Journal of Finance, the Review
of Financial Studies, and the Journal of Financial Economics, respectively. We
include clear and likely predictors, exclude regressions and event studies, and
drop predictors from Barber et al. 2001 Frazzini and Pedersen 2014, Hou and
Moskowitz 2005 (see Section 2.2). Reproductions use raw returns but originals
may include factor / characteristic adjustments. For full references see Tables 2
and 3. Interpretation: Reproductions are closer to the originals for more recent
publications and publications in select finance journals.


        (a) Published 2008 or Later                   (b) Published before 2008




      (c) Published in JF, RFS, or JFE                    (d) Other Journals




                                          47

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Figure 5: Monotonicity of Mean Returns. Description: We form decile portfolios
and examine the mean monthly in-sample return (in each decile. Data is limited
to the 170 continuous predictors. Each marker is one predictor-decile. Filled cir-
cles indicate that the mean return in decile k exceeds the mean return for decile
k − 1 for the same predictor. Interpretation: Mean returns increase monotoni-
cally in the signal, reproducing the fact that most original portfolio sorts show
monotonicity, and showing predictability is robust to implementation details.
Monotonicity supports the idea that p-hacking does not explain anomalies, as
p-hacking would have to operate across the entire predictor distribution.




                                         48

           Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Figure 6: Reproduction Performance for All Characteristics. Description: We
construct one long-short portfolio from each characteristic following the orig-
inal papers and examine the t-stat for the hypothesis that the mean return is
zero in the original papers’ sample periods. Predictor categories use results
from the original papers to judgmentally determine whether we should expect to
find statistical significance in our portfolio tests (see Section 2.3). Clear predic-
tors provide clear evidence, likely predictors have borderline evidence, and not-
predictors imply insignificance. Indirect signals had only suggestive evidence of
predictive power. Almost all indirect signals come from Hou, Xue, and Zhang
(2020). Interpretation: Likely predictors have reproduced t-stats that average
around 2.0, consistent with the original evidence. Not predictors are also reli-
ably reproduced. Indirect signals vary wildly in terms of their performance.




                                          49

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Figure 7: Replication of Other Meta-Study Replication Rates. Description: We
examine subsets of our characteristics that are in McLean and Pontiff (2016) (top
panel) or Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2020) (bottom panel). Each marker is one char-
acteristic’s long-short t-stat using the original sample period. Predictability cat-
egories are based on results in the original papers (see Sections 2.3 and 4.1). Ver-
tical line is 1.96. Interpretation: We replicate MP’s finding that roughly 12% of
their predictors have small t-stats. HXZ’s high “failure rate” seems to be driven
by indirect signals, which were not tested for predictability in the original papers.


                             (a) McLean and Pontiff (2016)




                               (b) Hou, Xue, Zhang (2020)




                                          50

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Figure 8: Out-of-Sample Replication of McLean and Pontiff’s (2016) Out-of-
Sample Tests (MP). Description: we compare returns (top panel) or t-stats (bot-
tom panel) in-sample with the difference between in-sample returns and post-
publication mean returns (ppt per month). OLS fit uses either predictors in MP
(solid line) or predictors not in MP (dashed line). Shaded area is 2 S.E. Axis lim-
its are identical to MP’s Figure 1. Dotted line is 45 degrees. Interpretation: MP’s
findings replicate, even out-of-sample. Returns decay post-publication (mark-
ers are right of 0) but remain positive (above 45 deg line in top panel, see also
Figure A.2)), and the decay is higher for predictors that are stronger in-sample
(upward slopes), consistent with investors learning about mispricing from aca-
demic studies.




                                          51

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Figure 9: Correlations Between Pairs of Predictive Characteristics or Pairs of
Portfolio Returns. Description: We show the distribution of correlations for
(a) pairs of characteristics, (b) pairs of long-short portfolio returns, (c) long-
short returns paired with HML, and (d) long-short returns paired with a Fama
and French (1993)-style momentum factor. HML and FF3-style momentum are
downloaded from Ken French’s website. Data is limited to clear and likely pre-
dictors. Characteristics are signed so that a higher value implies higher mean
returns and portfolios are signed to have positive mean returns, both following
the original papers. Characteristic are pooled across all firm-months available
and returns are pooled across the longest overlapping sample. Interpretation:
Our dataset contains many distinct predictors.


    (a) Signed Predictive Characteristics         (b) Signed Predictor Portfolio Returns




       (c) Signed Portfolios and HML             (d) Signed Portfolios and FF3 Momentum




                                            52

             Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Figure 10: Performance by Liquidity Adjustment. Description: We use predic-
tive characteristics to construct long-short portfolios using various liquidity ad-
justments. “Original papers” uses adjustments from the original papers (if any);
“price > 5,” “NYSE only,” and “ME > NYSE 20 pct” only take positions in stocks
if the share price exceeds $5, stock is listed on the NYSE, or if market equity ex-
ceeds to 20th percentile among NYSE stocks in the month. “VW force” forces
value-weighting. Each dot is one portfolio. Middle line is median, boxes are 25
and 75 percentiles, and the whiskers extend to the smallest (largest) value within
the 25th (75th) percentile minus (plus) 1.5 times the interquartile range. Inter-
pretation: Our code can impose a variety of liquidity adjustments and produces
the intuitive result that liquid stocks are less predictable. Most simple liquidity
adjustments reduce mean returns by a factor of about 1/3.




                                          53

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Figure 11: Performance by Rebalancing Frequency. Description: We use pre-
dictive characteristics to construct long-short portfolios that take on new signal
data every 1-, 3-, 6-, or 12-months and measure mean returns in the original sam-
ple periods. “Original papers” uses the rebalancing frequency in the original pa-
pers. Middle line is median, boxes are 25 and 75 percentiles, and the whiskers ex-
tend to the smallest (largest) value within the 25th (75th) percentile minus (plus)
1.5 times the interquartile range. Interpretation: Our code is flexible in rebalanc-
ing frequencies and produces the intuitive result that less frequent rebalancing
leads to lower mean returns. Enforcing 12-month holding periods reduces mean
returns by roughly 20% compared to the original specifications.




                                          54

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                  Table 1: An Open Source Dataset for Asset Pricing
Description: This table compares our dataset to McLean and Pontiff (2016) (MP); Green,
Hand, and Zhang (2017) (GHZ); Harvey, Liu, and Zhu (2016) (HLZ); and Hou, Xue, and
Zhang (2020) (HXZ). Predictor categories use results from the original papers to deter-
mine whether we should expect to find statistical significance in our long-short portfolio
tests. Clear predictors provide clear evidence (e.g. long-short t-stat > 4), likely predictors
have borderline evidence (e.g. multi-variate regression t-stat ≈ 2.5), and not-predictors
have t-stats < 1.96. Indirect signals had suggestive evidence of predictive power (e.g.
used as an ingredient in a larger model, correlated with B/M). Widely-available data
includes CRSP-Compustat, IBES, OptionMetrics, 13F, among others. A detailed list of
characteristic definitions is in the Online Appendix. Code and data are available at
www.openassetpricing.com. Interpretation: Our dataset offers comprehensive coverage
of firm-level predictors.

       Panel A: Variable Counts
                                         Our Data             Other Metastudies
                                   Predictor Extended        MP GHZ HLZ HXZ
       Firm-Level Characteristics from Widely-Available Data
                Clear Predictor         161         161       68      66   229      118
                Likely Predictor         44          44       24      13     7       27
                Not-Predictor                        14        1       3     1       10
                Indirect Signals                    100        4      20    46       85
                Total                   205         319       97    102    283      240

       Additional Portfolios Made from Alternative Rebalancing Frequencies
                                                    957                             212
       Other Variables
                Theory                                                       22
                Not Firm-Level                                               91
                Non-Widely Available Data                                    38
       Total                            205        1276       97    102    283      452


          Panel B: Our Coverage of Other Metastudies (%)
                                          MP         GHZ           HLZ        HXZ
          Firm-Level Characteristics from Widely-Available Data
                   Clear Predictor         97           88          90            100
                   Likely Predictor       100          100          43            100
                   not-predictor          100          100         100            100
                   Indirect Signals       100          100          91            100




                                              55

               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                       Table 2: Performance of Individual Clear Predictors. Description: This table lists clear predictors (defined in Section 2.3) in the
                                                                       baseline data along with their original in-sample periods; the mean return (% monthly) and t-stat in our reproduced long-short
                                                                       portfolio (in-sample); and the predictability evidence in the original paper. “port sort” is portfolio sort, “LS” is long-short portfolio,
                                                                       “mv reg” is multivariate regression. Interpretation: Reproduced t-stats are close to the original results and support the credibility of
                                                                       the literature as well as the quality of our code and data. The table also provides a quick-reference guide to our code and data.




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                                                                                                                                          Reproduction
                                                                         Original Study                           Predictor                            Acronym                Sample                     Original Study’s Predictability Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                         Mean Ret t-Stat

                                                                         Abarbanell and Bushee (1998)             Change in capital inv (ind adj)      ChInvIA               1974-1988     0.50     5.50   t=2.9 in mv reg
                                                                         Ali, Hwang, and Trombley (2003)          Idiosyncratic risk (AHT)             IdioVolAHT            1976-1997     0.89     2.53   t = 2.7 in mv reg
                                                                         Alwathainani (2009)                      Earnings consistency                 EarningsConsistency   1971-2002     0.21     2.51   t=2.7 in complicated LS port
                                                                         Amihud (2002)                            Amihud’s illiquidity                 Illiquidity           1964-1997     0.57     3.51   t=6.6 in univariate reg
                                                                         Anderson and Garcia-Feijoo (2006)        Change in capex (two years)          grcapx                1976-1999     0.50     4.96   t=5 in port sort
                                                                         Anderson and Garcia-Feijoo (2006)        Change in capex (three years)        grcapx3y              1976-1999     0.59     4.77   t=4.7 in port sort
                                                                         Ang et al. (2006)                        Systematic volatility                betaVIX               1986-2000     1.07     3.54   t=3.9 in port sort
                                                                         Ang et al. (2006)                        Idiosyncratic risk                   IdioRisk              1963-2000     0.99     3.25   t=2.9 in port sort
                                                                         Ang et al. (2006)                        Idiosyncratic risk (3 factor)        IdioVol3F             1963-2000     0.96     3.12   t=3.1 in port sort
                                                                  56     Ang, Chen and Xing (2006)                Coskewness using daily returns       CoskewACX             1963-2001     0.29     2.62   t=2.8 in port sort
                                                                         Avramov et al (2007)                     Junk Stock Momentum                  Mom6mJunk             1985-2003     1.58     3.30   t=4.3 in port sort
                                                                         Baik and Ahn (2007)                      Change in order backlog              OrderBacklogChg       1971-1999     0.38     2.49   p<0.01 in port sort
                                                                         Balakrishnan, Bartov and Faurel (2010)   Return on assets (qtrly)             roaq                  1976-2005     1.69     5.90   t=6.5 in port sort, nontraditional
                                                                         Bali, Cakici, and Whitelaw (2010)        Maximum return over month            MaxRet                1962-2005     0.89     2.74   t=2.8 in port sort
                                                                         Bali, Engle and Murray (2015)            Return skewness                      ReturnSkew            1963-2012     0.41     5.27   t=4 in port sort
                                                                         Bali, Engle and Murray (2015)            Idiosyncratic skewness (3F model)    ReturnSkew3F          1963-2012     0.29     4.76   t=4.4 in port sort
                                                                         Ball et al. (2016)                       Cash-based operating profitability   CBOperProf            1963-2014     0.46     3.20   t=3.2 in port sort
                                                                         Banz (1981)                              Size                                 Size                  1926-1975     0.50     2.64   t=3.1 in long-short
                                                                         Barth and Hutton (2004)                  Change in Forecast and Accrual       ChForecastAccrual     1981-1996     0.36     4.28   p-val < 0.001 in port sort
                                                                         Bartov and Kim (2004)                    Book-to-market and accruals          AccrualsBM            1980-1998     1.44     4.85   t=5.5 in long-short
                                                                         Basu (1977)                              Earnings-to-Price Ratio              EP                    1957-1971     0.39     2.21   monotonic port sort but no LS
                                                                         Bazdresch, Belo and Lin (2014)           Employment growth                    hire                  1965-2010     0.51     5.67   t=5.8 in port sort
                                                                         Belo and Lin (2012)                      Inventory Growth                     InvGrowth             1965-2009     0.87     7.19   t=6.6 in port sort
                                                                         Bhandari (1988)                          Market leverage                      Leverage              1952-1981     0.36     2.64   t=3.9 in regression
                                                                         Blitz, Huij and Martens (2011)           Momentum based on FF3 residuals      ResidualMomentum      1930-2009     0.95     8.27   t=8 in long-short ff3+ alpha
                                                                         Blume and Husic (1972)                   Price                                Price                 1932-1971     1.42     3.07   t=3 in regressions
                                                                         Boudoukh et al. (2007)                   Net Payout Yield                     NetPayoutYield        1984-2003     0.87     2.57   t=2.8 in conservative LS, strong port sort
                                                                         Boudoukh et al. (2007)                   Payout Yield                         PayoutYield           1984-2003     0.43     2.27   t=3.9 in conservative LS, strong port sort
                                                                         Bradshaw, Richardson, Sloan (2006)       Net debt financing                   NetDebtFinance        1971-2000     0.75     7.70   t=6.9 in port sort

                                                                         continued on next page
                                                                                                                                                 Table 2: (continued)

                                                                                                                                                                                           Reproduction
                                                                       Original Study                           Predictor                         Acronym                      Sample                     Original Study’s Predictability Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                          Mean Ret t-Stat

                                                                       Bradshaw, Richardson, Sloan (2006)       Net equity financing              NetEquityFinance            1971-2000     1.06     5.40   t=3.8 in port sort




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                       Bradshaw, Richardson, Sloan (2006)       Net external financing            XFIN                        1971-2000     1.14     4.84   t=5.7 in port sort
                                                                       Brennan, Chordia, Subra (1998)           Past trading volume               DolVol                      1966-1995     0.75     2.72   t=2.9 in regression
                                                                       Cen, Wei, and Zhang (2006)               Analyst earnings per share        FEPS                        1983-2002     1.46     3.04   t=2.7 in port sort
                                                                       Chan and Ko (2006)                       Momentum and LT Reversal          MomRev                      1965-2001     1.19     4.38   t=4.3 in long-short
                                                                       Chan, Jegadeesh and Lakonishok (1996)    Earnings announcement return      AnnouncementReturn          1977-1992     1.20    13.34   t=9.3 in regression
                                                                       Chan, Jegadeesh and Lakonishok (1996)    Earnings forecast revisions       REV6                        1977-1992     1.29     5.44   t=4.1 in regression
                                                                       Chan, Lakonishok and Sougiannis (2001)   R&D over market cap               RD                          1975-1995     1.01     5.82   strong port sort
                                                                       Chandrashekar and Rao (2009)             Cash Productivity                 CashProd                    1963-2003     0.56     3.40   t=3.6 in regression
                                                                       Chen, Hong and Stein (2002)              Breadth of ownership              DelBreadth                  1979-1998     0.69     3.69   t=4.0 in port sort
                                                                       Chordia, Subra, Anshuman (2001)          Share turnover volatility         std_turn                    1966-1995     0.80     3.42   t=3.7 in regression
                                                                       Chordia, Subra, Anshuman (2001)          Volume Variance                   VolSD                       1966-1995     0.38     2.82   t=3.6 in regression
                                                                       Cohen and Frazzini (2008)                Customer momentum                 CustomerMomentum            1980-2004     1.16     3.27   t=3.8 in port sort
                                                                       Cohen and Lou (2012)                     Conglomerate return               retConglomerate             1977-2009     1.32     6.50   t=5.5 in port sort
                                                                       Cohen, Diether and Malloy (2013)         R&D ability                       RDAbility                   1980-2009     0.27     1.50   t=2.6 in double sort
                                                                  57   Cooper, Gulen and Schill (2008)          Asset growth                      AssetGrowth                 1968-2003     1.50     7.64   t=8.5 in port sort
                                                                       Cremers and Nair (2005)                  Takeover vulnerability            Activism1                   1990-2001     0.24     1.00   t=3.1 in port sort
                                                                       Da and Warachka (2011)                   Long-vs-short EPS forecasts       EarningsForecastDisparity   1983-2006     0.66     4.38   t=5.1 in LS port
                                                                       Daniel and Titman (2006)                 Composite equity issuance         CompEquIss                  1968-2003     0.27     2.41   t=4.4 in mv reg
                                                                       Daniel and Titman (2006)                 Intangible return using BM        IntanBM                     1968-2003     0.40     2.29   t=4.0 in mv reg
                                                                       Daniel and Titman (2006)                 Intangible return using CFtoP     IntanCFP                    1968-2003     0.40     2.32   t=4.9 in mv reg
                                                                       Daniel and Titman (2006)                 Intangible return using EP        IntanEP                     1968-2003     0.34     2.46   t=4.6 in mv reg
                                                                       Daniel and Titman (2006)                 Intangible return using Sale2P    IntanSP                     1968-2003     0.53     2.42   t=4.3 in mv reg
                                                                       Daniel and Titman (2006)                 Share issuance (5 year)           ShareIss5Y                  1968-2003     0.52     4.32   t=4.4 in univar reg
                                                                       Datar, Naik and Radcliffe (1998)         Share Volume                      ShareVol                    1962-1991     0.91     3.87   t=8.9 in univariate reg
                                                                       De Bondt and Thaler (1985)               Long-run reversal                 LRreversal                  1929-1982     0.79     3.04   t=3.3 in long-short
                                                                       Dechow, Sloan and Soliman (2004)         Equity Duration                   EquityDuration              1962-1998     0.56     3.09   t=4.4 in conservative long-short
                                                                       Desai, Rajgopal, Venkatachalam (2004)    Operating Cash flows to price     cfp                         1973-1997     0.36     2.18   t=2.77 in port sort
                                                                       Dharan and Ikenberry (1995)              Exchange Switch                   ExchSwitch                  1962-1990     0.45     2.89   t = 3.6 in event study
                                                                       Dichev (1998)                            O Score                           OScore                      1981-1995     1.01     3.39   t=3.36 in LS port
                                                                       Dichev and Piotroski (2001)              Credit Rating Downgrade           CredRatDG                   1986-1998     0.73     2.92   t=11 in event study w/ special data
                                                                       Diether, Malloy and Scherbina (2002)     EPS Forecast Dispersion           ForecastDispersion          1976-2000     0.65     3.05   t=2.9 in port sort
                                                                       Doyle, Lundholm and Soliman (2003)       Excluded Expenses                 ExclExp                     1988-1999     0.27     3.02   t=5.7 in mv reg
                                                                       Eberhart, Maxwell and Siddique (2004)    Unexpected R&D increase           SurpriseRD                  1974-2001     0.29     3.00   t=3.5 in long-short
                                                                       Eisfeldt and Papanikolaou (2013)         Organizational capital            OrgCap                      1970-2008     0.37     2.72   t=2.9 in port sort

                                                                       continued on next page
                                                                                                                                                Table 2: (continued)

                                                                                                                                                                                        Reproduction
                                                                       Original Study                          Predictor                            Acronym                 Sample                     Original Study’s Predictability Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                       Mean Ret t-Stat

                                                                       Elgers, Lo and Pfeiffer (2001)          Earnings Forecast to price           sfe                    1982-1998     0.81     2.61   t=5 in long-short size adjusted




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                       Fama and French (1992)                  Total assets to market               AM                     1963-1990     0.63     3.50   t=5.7 in univar reg
                                                                       Fama and French (1992)                  Book to market using December ME     BMdec                  1963-1990     0.98     5.37   t=5.71 in univariate reg
                                                                       Fama and French (1992)                  Book leverage (annual)               BookLeverage           1963-1990     0.28     3.30   t=5.3 in mv reg
                                                                       Foster, Olsen and Shevlin (1984)        Earnings Surprise                    EarningsSurprise       1974-1981     1.16     4.94   huge spread in event study
                                                                       Gompers, Ishii and Metrick (2003)       Governance Index                     Governance             1990-1999     0.52     2.11   t=2.7 in long short FF3 alpha
                                                                       Gou, Lev and Shi (2006)                 IPO and no R&D spending              RDIPO                  1980-1995     0.97     2.97   t=2.68 in port sort FF3+Mom alpha
                                                                       Grinblatt and Moskowitz (1999)          Industry Momentum                    IndMom                 1963-1995     0.27     2.55   t=4.6 in long-short
                                                                       Hafzalla, Lundholm, Van Winkle (2011)   Percent Operating Accruals           PctAcc                 1989-2008     0.46     3.51   t>2.6 in size-adjusted long-short
                                                                       Hafzalla, Lundholm, Van Winkle (2011)   Percent Total Accruals               PctTotAcc              1989-2008     0.50     4.70   t>2.6 in size-adjusted long-short
                                                                       Hahn and Lee (2009)                     Tangibility                          tang                   1973-2001     0.71     3.67   t=3.37 in univariate FMB
                                                                       Hartzmark and Salomon (2013)            Dividend seasonality                 DivSeason              1927-2011     0.33    14.54   t=16 in long-short
                                                                       Hawkins, Chamberlin, Daniel (1984)      EPS forecast revision                AnalystRevision        1975-1980     0.91     5.12   t=3.2 in long only CAPM alpha
                                                                       Heston and Sadka (2008)                 Momentum without the seasonal part   Mom12mOffSeason        1965-2002     1.23     3.85   t=4 in port sort
                                                                       Heston and Sadka (2008)                 Off season long-term reversal        MomOffSeason           1965-2002     1.31     4.93   t=5.6 in port sort
                                                                  58   Heston and Sadka (2008)                 Off season reversal years 6 to 10    MomOffSeason06YrPlus   1965-2002     0.59     4.36   t=4.6 in port sort
                                                                       Heston and Sadka (2008)                 Off season reversal years 16 to 20   MomOffSeason16YrPlus   1965-2002     0.35     2.54   t=3.4 in port sort
                                                                       Heston and Sadka (2008)                 Return seasonality years 2 to 5      MomSeason              1965-2002     0.82     5.86   t=5 in port sort
                                                                       Heston and Sadka (2008)                 Return seasonality years 6 to 10     MomSeason06YrPlus      1965-2002     0.74     6.17   t=6.1 in port sort
                                                                       Heston and Sadka (2008)                 Return seasonality years 11 to 15    MomSeason11YrPlus      1965-2002     0.75     6.94   t=6.4 in port sort
                                                                       Heston and Sadka (2008)                 Return seasonality years 16 to 20    MomSeason16YrPlus      1965-2002     0.59     5.05   t=4.5 in port sort
                                                                       Heston and Sadka (2008)                 Return seasonality last year         MomSeasonShort         1965-2002     1.36     8.62   t=7.6 in port sort
                                                                       Hirschleifer, Hsu and Li (2013)         Citations to RD expenses             CitationsRD            1982-2008     0.21     2.21   t=2.6 in FF3 style long-short
                                                                       Hirschleifer, Hsu and Li (2013)         Patents to RD expenses               PatentsRD              1982-2008     0.30     3.18   t=4.1 in FF3 style long-short
                                                                       Hirshleifer et al. (2004)               Net Operating Assets                 NOA                    1964-2002     1.07     7.51   t=8.5 in long-short
                                                                       Hirshleifer, Hou, Teoh, Zhang (2004)    change in net operating assets       dNoa                   1964-2002     1.05     9.25   t=8.9 in mv reg
                                                                       Hou (2007)                              Earnings surprise of big firms       EarnSupBig             1972-2001     0.37     2.38   t=9 in mv reg weekly
                                                                       Hou (2007)                              Industry return of big firms         IndRetBig              1972-2001     2.22     9.26   t=11 in mv reg
                                                                       Hou and Moskowitz (2005)                Price delay r square                 PriceDelayRsq          1964-2001     0.48     2.69   t =3.4 in port sort char adj
                                                                       Hou and Robinson (2006)                 Industry concentration (sales)       Herf                   1963-2001     0.21     2.30   t = 2.14 in port sort
                                                                       Hou and Robinson (2006)                 Industry concentration (equity)      HerfBE                 1963-2001     0.22     2.04   t = 2.52 in characteristics-adjusted port sort
                                                                       Jegadeesh (1989)                        Short term reversal                  STreversal             1934-1987     2.94    14.02   t=12 in port sort
                                                                       Jegadeesh and Livnat (2006)             Revenue Surprise                     RevenueSurprise        1987-2003     0.75     5.99   t>2.6 in many event studies
                                                                       Jegadeesh and Titman (1993)             Momentum (12 month)                  Mom12m                 1964-1989     1.37     4.58   t=3.7 long-short
                                                                       Jegadeesh and Titman (1993)             Momentum (6 month)                   Mom6m                  1964-1989     1.04     3.68   t=2.4 long-short

                                                                       continued on next page
                                                                                                                                                Table 2: (continued)

                                                                                                                                                                                       Reproduction
                                                                       Original Study                        Predictor                           Acronym                   Sample                     Original Study’s Predictability Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                      Mean Ret t-Stat

                                                                       Jegadeesh et al. (2004)               Change in recommendation            ChangeInRecommendation   1985-1998     1.04     6.65   p<0.01 in LS port, but we lack the data




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                       Johnson and So (2012)                 Option to stock volume              OptionVolume1            1996-2010     0.68     2.04   t = 3.45 in port sort CAPM alpha weekly
                                                                       Kelly and Jiang (2014)                Tail risk beta                      BetaTailRisk             1963-2010     0.46     3.30   Tab4A t-stat 2.48
                                                                       La Porta (1996)                       Long-term EPS forecast              fgr5yrLag                1983-1990     0.83     2.06   t=4.9 in regression
                                                                       Lakonishok, Shleifer, Vishny (1994)   Cash flow to market                 CF                       1968-1990     0.83     4.04   t=3.4 in port sort
                                                                       Lakonishok, Shleifer, Vishny (1994)   Revenue Growth Rank                 MeanRankRevGrowth        1968-1990     0.55     3.94   t=4.5 in double sort
                                                                       Landsman et al. (2011)                Real dirty surplus                  RDS                      1976-2003     0.49     3.83   t=5.8 in port sort
                                                                       Lee and Swaminathan (2000)            Momentum in high volume stocks      MomVol                   1965-1995     1.59     5.05   t=6 in long-short, lots of robustness
                                                                       Lev and Nissim (2004)                 Taxable income to income            Tax                      1973-2000     0.45     3.52   t=3.9 in regression
                                                                       Li (2011)                             R&D capital-to-assets               RDcap                    1980-2007     0.46     2.32   t=2.6 in long-short
                                                                       Litzenberger and Ramaswamy (1979)     Predicted div yield next month      DivYieldST               1936-1977     0.41     4.23   t=6 in mv reg
                                                                       Liu (2006)                            Days with zero trades               zerotrade                1960-2003     0.49     2.63   t=4.1 in port sort
                                                                       Liu (2006)                            Days with zero trades               zerotradeAlt1            1960-2003     0.64     3.80   t = 3.46 in port sort (12m holding)
                                                                       Liu (2006)                            Days with zero trades               zerotradeAlt12           1960-2003     0.40     2.79   t > 4 in port sort (diff holding periods)
                                                                       Lockwood and Prombutr (2010)          Growth in book equity               ChEQ                     1964-2007     0.56     4.26   t=5.38 in EW port sort
                                                                  59   Loh and Warachka (2012)               Earnings surprise streak            EarningsStreak           1987-2009     1.09    10.60   t=9.5 in port sort ff3 alpha
                                                                       Lou (2014)                            Growth in advertising expenses      GrAdExp                  1974-2010     0.44     3.89   t=3.5 in long-short
                                                                       Loughran and Wellman (2011)           Enterprise Multiple                 EntMult                  1963-2009     0.85     5.55   t=6.54 in decile sort CAPM alpha
                                                                       Lyandres, Sun and Zhang (2008)        Composite debt issuance             CompositeDebtIssuance    1970-2005     0.31     5.19   t=8.59 in port sort CAPM alpha
                                                                       Lyandres, Sun and Zhang (2008)        change in ppe and inv/assets        InvestPPEInv             1970-2005     0.80     7.86   t=7 in long-short port
                                                                       Menzly and Ozbas (2010)               Customers momentum                  iomom_cust               1986-2005     0.71     2.53   t=2.6 in industry port sort
                                                                       Menzly and Ozbas (2010)               Suppliers momentum                  iomom_supp               1986-2005     0.60     2.31   t=3.4 in industry port sort
                                                                       Michaely, Thaler and Womack (1995)    Dividend Initiation                 DivInit                  1964-1988     0.58     5.65   t=3.4 in event study
                                                                       Michaely, Thaler and Womack (1995)    Dividend Omission                   DivOmit                  1964-1988     0.51     3.06   t=6 in event study
                                                                       Mohanram (2005)                       Mohanram G-score                    MS                       1978-2001     1.34     5.44   t=9 in port sort nonstandard data lag
                                                                       Nagel (2005)                          Inst Own and Forecast Dispersion    RIO_Disp                 1980-2003     0.62     2.60   t = 2.47 in conditional sort
                                                                       Nagel (2005)                          Inst Own and Market to Book         RIO_MB                   1980-2003     0.90     3.74   t = 4.91 in conditional sort
                                                                       Nagel (2005)                          Inst Own and Turnover               RIO_Turnover             1980-2003     0.65     2.78   t = 2.71 in conditional sort
                                                                       Nagel (2005)                          Inst Own and Idio Vol               RIO_Volatility           1980-2003     1.01     4.19   t = 4.38 in conditional sort
                                                                       Nguyen and Swanson (2009)             Efficient frontier index            Frontier                 1980-2003     2.09     6.24   t=5 in port sort
                                                                       Novy-Marx (2010)                      Operating leverage                  OPLeverage               1963-2008     0.35     2.50   t=3.38 in port sort
                                                                       Novy-Marx (2012)                      Intermediate Momentum               IntMom                   1927-2010     1.24     5.90   Tab2 t-stat 5.79
                                                                       Novy-Marx (2013)                      gross profits / total assets        GP                       1963-2010     0.30     2.38   t=2.5 in VW LS quint
                                                                       Palazzo (2012)                        Cash to assets                      Cash                     1972-2009     0.70     2.97   t=2.14 in port sort but strong with adjustments
                                                                       Pastor and Stambaugh (2003)           Pastor-Stambaugh liquidity beta     BetaLiquidityPS          1968-1999     0.35     1.93   t=2.54 in VW port sort CAPM alpha

                                                                       continued on next page
                                                                                                                                                       Table 2: (continued)

                                                                                                                                                                                           Reproduction
                                                                       Original Study                            Predictor                                 Acronym             Sample                     Original Study’s Predictability Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                          Mean Ret t-Stat

                                                                       Penman, Richardson and Tuna (2007)        Leverage component of BM                  BPEBM              1963-2001     0.22     2.83   t=4.1 in univariate reg




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                       Penman, Richardson and Tuna (2007)        Enterprise component of BM                EBM                1963-2001     0.31     4.14   t=3.0 in double sort
                                                                       Penman, Richardson and Tuna (2007)        Net debt to price                         NetDebtPrice       1963-2001     0.55     3.88   t=2.3 in double sort
                                                                       Piotroski (2000)                          Piotroski F-score                         PS                 1976-1996     0.92     3.29   t=5.59 in port sort nonstandard data lag
                                                                       Pontiff and Woodgate (2008)               Share issuance (1 year)                   ShareIss1Y         1970-2003     0.62     4.97   t=7.08 in univariate reg
                                                                       Rajgopal, Shevlin, Venkatachalam (2003)   Order backlog                             OrderBacklog       1981-1999     0.51     3.43   t=2.38 in univariate size-adjusted FMB
                                                                       Richardson et al. (2005)                  Change in current operating assets        DelCOA             1962-2001     0.54     6.01   t=9 in mv reg
                                                                       Richardson et al. (2005)                  Change in current operating liabilities   DelCOL             1962-2001     0.35     4.35   t=4.5 in mv reg
                                                                       Richardson et al. (2005)                  Change in equity to assets                DelEqu             1963-2001     0.47     3.18   t=6.3 in mv reg
                                                                       Richardson et al. (2005)                  Change in financial liabilities           DelFINL            1962-2001     0.73    12.23   t=8 in univariate reg
                                                                       Richardson et al. (2005)                  Change in long-term investment            DelLTI             1962-2001     0.17     2.55   t=3.4 in mv reg
                                                                       Richardson et al. (2005)                  Change in net financial assets            DelNetFin          1962-2001     0.55     9.00   t=6 in unvivariate reg
                                                                       Richardson et al. (2005)                  Total accruals                            TotalAccruals      1962-2001     0.28     2.63   t=6 in mv reg
                                                                       Ritter (1991)                             Initial Public Offerings                  IndIPO             1975-1987     0.66     2.36   t=4 in event study
                                                                       Rosenberg, Reid, and Lanstein (1985)      Book to market using most recent ME       BM                 1973-1984     1.60     3.79   t=6 in nonstandard long-short
                                                                  60   Scherbina (2008)                          Decline in Analyst Coverage               ChNAnalyst         1982-2005     1.09     3.65   t > 3 in port sort FF3 alpha for small stocks
                                                                       Sloan (1996)                              Accruals                                  Accruals           1962-1991     0.56     5.07   t > 4 in port sort CAPM alpha 12 month holding
                                                                       Soliman (2008)                            Change in Asset Turnover                  ChAssetTurnover    1984-2002     0.29     3.77   t=5 in mv reg
                                                                       Soliman (2008)                            Change in Net Noncurrent Op Assets        ChNNCOA            1984-2002     0.35     4.43   t=4.3 in mv reg
                                                                       Soliman (2008)                            Change in Net Working Capital             ChNWC              1984-2002     0.16     2.83   t=4.6 in mv reg
                                                                       Thomas and Zhang (2002)                   Inventory Growth                          ChInv              1970-1997     0.77     6.24   t>2.6 in port sort
                                                                       Thomas and Zhang (2011)                   Change in Taxes                           ChTax              1977-2006     1.09     9.50   t = 11.26 in decile sort
                                                                       Titman, Wei and Xie (2004)                Investment to revenue                     Investment         1973-1996     0.25     2.28   t=2.86 in VW port sort
                                                                       Valta (2016)                              Convertible debt indicator                ConvDebt           1985-2012     0.38     4.34   t > 2.6 in mv reg
                                                                       Xie (2001)                                Abnormal Accruals                         AbnormalAccruals   1971-1992     0.54     5.10   t=8 port sort w/ nonstandard data lag
                                                                       Yan (2011)                                Put volatility minus call volatility      SmileSlope         1996-2005     1.78     7.62   t=8 in port sort
                                                                       Zhang (2004)                              Firm Age - Momentum                       FirmAgeMom         1983-2001     2.29     5.40   t = 7.21 in long portfolio
                                                                       Table 3: Performance of Individual Likely Predictors. Description: This table lists likely predictors (defined in Section 2.3) in the
                                                                       baseline data along with their original in-sample periods; the mean return (% monthly) and t-stat in our reproduced long-short
                                                                       portfolio (in-sample); and the predictability evidence in the original paper. “port sort” is portfolio sort, “LS” is long-short portfolio,
                                                                       “mv reg” is multivariate regression. Interpretation: Our categorization of predictors as “likely” can be justified by the original studies.
                                                                       As in Table 2, reproduced t-stats are close to the original results and support the credibility of the literature as well as the quality of




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                       our code and data. The table also provides a quick-reference guide to our code and data.

                                                                                                                                                                                               Reproduction
                                                                            Related Original Study                   Predictor                              Acronym                Sample                     Original Study’s Predictability Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                              Mean Ret t-Stat

                                                                            Abarbanell and Bushee (1998)             Sales growth over inventory growth     GrSaleToGrInv         1974-1988      0.31     3.30   t=2.4 in mv reg
                                                                            Abarbanell and Bushee (1998)             Sales growth over overhead growth      GrSaleToGrOverhead    1974-1988     -0.06    -0.44   t=2.1 in mv reg
                                                                            Amihud and Mendelsohn (1986)             Bid-ask spread                         BidAskSpread          1961-1980      0.71     1.59   strong port sorts but no LS special data
                                                                            Asquith Pathak and Ritter (2005)         Inst own among high short interest     IO_ShortInterest      1980-2002      2.22     3.04   strong port sort but no long-short
                                                                            Ball et al. (2016)                       Operating profitability R&D adjusted   OperProfRD            1963-2014      0.33     1.91   t=1.8 in port sort
                                                                            Barbee, Mukherji and Raines (1996)       Sales-to-price                         SP                    1979-1991      0.71     2.86   t=2.5 in mv reg
                                                                            Barber et al. (2002)                     Consensus Recommendation               ConsRecomm            1985-1997      0.53     1.35   t=3.2 in port sort nonstandard data
                                                                            Barber et al. (2002)                     Down forecast EPS                      DownRecomm            1985-1997      0.63     5.54   t>8 in 3-day event study
                                                                  61        Barber et al. (2002)                     Up Forecast                            UpRecomm              1985-1997      0.61     4.62   t>8 in 3-day event study
                                                                            Barry and Brown (1984)                   Firm age based on CRSP                 FirmAge               1931-1980     -0.01    -0.06   t=2.5 in reg nonstandard data
                                                                            Belo, Lin and Vitorino (2014)            Brand capital investment               BrandInvest           1975-2010      0.56     1.97   t=2.0 in port sort
                                                                            Chan, Lakonishok and Sougiannis (2001)   Advertising Expense                    AdExp                 1975-1996      0.65     3.15   53 bps spread but no t-stat
                                                                            Cremers and Nair (2005)                  Active shareholders                    Activism2             1990-2001      0.43     1.02   t=2.0 in port sort
                                                                            Cusatis, Miles and Woolridge (1993)      Spinoffs                               Spinoff               1965-1988      0.40     2.22   t=2.3 in event study
                                                                            De Bondt and Thaler (1985)               Medium-run reversal                    MRreversal            1933-1980      0.39     2.08   large ret in similar long-short
                                                                            Dechow et al. (2001)                     Short Interest                         ShortInterest         1976-1993      0.83     5.30   35 bps spread in port sort
                                                                            Easley, Hvidkjaer and O’Hara (2002)      Probability of Informed Trading        ProbInformedTrading   1984-1998      1.30     4.34   t=2.5 in mv reg
                                                                            Fairfield, Whisenant and Yohn (2003)     Growth in long term operating assets   GrLTNOA               1964-1993      0.37     3.73   61 bps spread in long-short
                                                                            Fama and French (2006)                   operating profits / book equity        OperProf              1977-2003      0.72     3.00   t=2.6 in mv reg
                                                                            Fama and MacBeth (1973)                  CAPM beta                              Beta                  1929-1968      0.66     1.72   t=2.6 univar reg
                                                                            Frankel and Lee (1998)                   Analyst Value                          AnalystValue          1975-1993      0.26     1.73   p<0.01 in port sort but nonstandard stats
                                                                            Frankel and Lee (1998)                   Analyst Optimism                       AOP                   1975-1993      0.36     2.01   p<0.01 in port sort but nonstandard stats
                                                                            Frankel and Lee (1998)                   Predicted Analyst forecast error       PredictedFE           1979-1993      0.30     0.96   p<0.01 in reg but nonstandard stats
                                                                            Franzoni and Marin (2006)                Pension Funding Status                 FR                    1980-2002      0.31     1.74   49 bps long-short
                                                                            Frazzini and Pedersen (2014)             Frazzini-Pedersen Beta                 BetaFP                1929-2012      0.03     0.08   t=7 in nonstandard port sort
                                                                            George and Hwang (2004)                  52 week high                           High52                1963-2001      0.51     1.94   t=2.0 in long-short
                                                                            Harvey and Siddique (2000)               Coskewness                             Coskewness            1964-1993      0.27     2.18   p-val<0.05 in long-short

                                                                            continued on next page
                                                                                                                                                      Table 3: (continued)

                                                                                                                                                                                             Reproduction
                                                                       Original Study                            Predictor                               Acronym                 Sample                     Original Study’s Predictability Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                            Mean Ret t-Stat

                                                                       Haugen and Baker (1996)                   net income / book equity                RoE                    1979-1993     0.32      2.82   t=4.5 in mv reg nonstandard




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                       Haugen and Baker (1996)                   Cash-flow to price variance             VarCF                  1979-1993     -0.56    -1.91   t=2.5 in mv reg nonstandard
                                                                       Haugen and Baker (1996)                   Volume to market equity                 VolMkt                 1979-1993     0.45      1.59   t=4 in mv reg nonstandard
                                                                       Haugen and Baker (1996)                   Volume Trend                            VolumeTrend            1979-1993     0.54      2.93   t=3 in mv reg nonstandard
                                                                       Heston and Sadka (2008)                   Off season reversal years 11 to 15      MomOffSeason11YrPlus   1965-2002     0.24      2.03   t=1.8 in port sort, but similar strats do better
                                                                       Hong and Kacperczyk (2009)                Sin Stock (selection criteria)          sinAlgo                1926-2006      0.21     1.92   t-stat = 1.8 in LS nontraditional
                                                                       Hou and Moskowitz (2005)                  Price delay coeff                       PriceDelaySlope        1964-2001     0.17      2.01   t =7.7 in port sort w/ complicated signal
                                                                       Hou and Moskowitz (2005)                  Price delay SE adjusted                 PriceDelayTstat        1964-2001     0.15      1.53   t =7.39 in port sort w/ complicated signal
                                                                       Hou and Robinson (2006)                   Industry concentration (assets)         HerfAsset              1963-2001     0.18      1.66   t = 2.12 in characteristics-adjusted port sort
                                                                       Ikenberry, Lakonishok, Vermaelen (1995)   Share repurchases                       ShareRepurchase        1980-1990     0.32      4.01   t=1.85 in long - benchmark port
                                                                       Johnson and So (2012)                     Option volume to average                OptionVolume2          1996-2010     0.53      1.79   t = 2.5 in port sort CAPM alpha weekly data
                                                                       Loh and Warachka (2012)                   Earnings streak length                  NumEarnIncrease        1987-2009      0.52     6.75   similar results in port sorts but not exact
                                                                       Prakash and Sinha (2012)                  Deferred Revenue                        DelDRC                 2002-2007     0.71      1.66   t=3.6 in nonstandard reg 5 year sample
                                                                       Ritter (1991)                             IPO and age                             AgeIPO                 1981-1984     1.41      2.68   Event study, no t-stat
                                                                       Spiess and Affleck-Graves (1999)          Debt Issuance                           DebtIssuance           1975-1989      0.17     2.98   t = 2.19 FF3 alpha on long port
                                                                  62   Tuzel (2010)                              Real estate holdings                    realestate             1971-2005     0.28      1.82   t=1.8 (VW) and t= 1.28 (EW) in port sort
                                                                       Xing, Zhang and Zhao (2010)               Volatility smirk near the money         skew1                  1996-2005     0.55      2.45   t = 2.19 in port sort
                                                                       Table 4: Performance of Not-Predictors and Indirect Signals. This table lists not-predictors and indirect signals (defined in Section
                                                                       2.3). The vast majority of these characteristics are included only to nest Hou, Xue, and Zhang (2020) (HXZ) (see Table 1). We list the
                                                                       original or related study’s in-sample periods; the mean return (% monthly) and t-stat in our reproduced long-short portfolio (in-
                                                                       sample); and the predictability evidence in the original paper, if available. Unlike clear and likely predictors, we do not sign these
                                                                       portfolios or select portfolio implementations based on the original papers’ results. All portfolios are equal-weighted and long-




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                       short quintiles, unless the characteristic is discrete. “HXZ variant” indicates our characteristic is based on HXZ’s modification of a
                                                                       (not necessarily predictive) characteristic in a previous study. Interpretation: Our categorization of predictors as “not” or “indirect
                                                                       evidence” can be justified by evidence in the original or related studies. Many of HXZ’s “replication failures” come from studies that
                                                                       were never shown to produce statistically significant predictability.

                                                                                                                                                                                   Predictor            Reproduction   Original Study’s Predictability Evidence
                                                                       Original / Related Study                 Predictor                                  Acronym
                                                                                                                                                                                   Category            Mean Ret t-Stat (if Available)

                                                                       Abarbanell and Bushee (1998)             Effective Tax Rate                         ETR                     Indirect Evidence        0.01    0.18   t=1.5 in mv reg
                                                                       Abarbanell and Bushee (1998)             Gross margin growth to sales growth        GrGMToGrSales           Indirect Evidence        0.37    3.30   t=1.9 in mv reg
                                                                       Abarbanell and Bushee (1998)             Change in sales vs change in receiv        GrSaleToGrReceivables   Indirect Evidence        0.06    0.66   t=1.6 in mv reg
                                                                  63   Abarbanell and Bushee (1998)             Laborforce efficiency                      LaborforceEfficiency    Indirect Evidence       -0.07   -0.74   t=0.6 in mv reg
                                                                       Abarbanell and Bushee (1998)             Change in gross margin vs sales            pchgm_pchsale           Indirect Evidence        0.42    3.76   GHZ variant of GrGMToGrSale
                                                                       Acharya and Pedersen (2005)              Illiquidity-illiquidity beta (beta2i)      betaCC                  Indirect Evidence        0.33    1.87   in-sample only
                                                                       Acharya and Pedersen (2005)              Illiquidity-market return beta (beta4i)    betaCR                  Indirect Evidence       -0.09   -0.98   in-sample only
                                                                       Acharya and Pedersen (2005)              Net liquidity beta (betanet,p)             betaNet                 Indirect Evidence        0.35    1.97   in-sample only
                                                                       Acharya and Pedersen (2005)              Return-market illiquidity beta             betaRC                  Indirect Evidence        0.06    0.30   in-sample only
                                                                       Acharya and Pedersen (2005)              Return-market return illiquidity beta      betaRR                  Indirect Evidence       -0.03   -0.14   in-sample only
                                                                       Adrian, Etula and Muir (2014)            Broker-Dealer Leverage Beta                BetaBDLeverage          Not Predictor            0.41    2.22   t=1 in conservative port sort
                                                                       Anderson and Garcia-Feijoo (2006)        Investment growth (1 year)                 grcapx1y                Indirect Evidence       -0.28   -3.74   HXZ variant
                                                                       Anderson, Ghysels, and Juergens (2005)   Long-term forecast dispersion              ForecastDispersionLT    Not Predictor           -0.00   -0.00   t=1.0 in conservative long-short
                                                                       Ang et al. (2006)                        Idiosyncratic risk (CAPM)                  IdioVolCAPM             Indirect Evidence       -0.31   -1.01   HXZ variant
                                                                       Ang et al. (2006)                        Idiosyncratic risk (q factor)              IdioVolQF               Indirect Evidence       -0.39   -1.16   HXZ variant
                                                                       Ang, Chen and Xing (2006)                Downside beta                              DownsideBeta            Not Predictor            0.07    0.31   t=0.6 in port sort
                                                                       Balakrishnan, Bartov and Faurel (2010)   Change in Return on assets                 ChangeRoA               Indirect Evidence        1.32   12.59   HXZ variant
                                                                       Balakrishnan, Bartov and Faurel (2010)   Change in Return on equity                 ChangeRoE               Indirect Evidence        1.08   10.53   HXZ variant
                                                                       Bali, Engle and Murray (2015)            Idiosyncratic skewness (CAPM)              ReturnSkewCAPM          Indirect Evidence       -0.36   -5.39   HXZ variant
                                                                       Bali, Engle and Murray (2015)            Idiosyncratic skewness (Q model)           ReturnSkewQF            Indirect Evidence       -0.26   -4.29   HXZ variant
                                                                       Ball et al. (2016)                       Cash-based oper prof lagged assets         CBOperProfLagAT         Indirect Evidence        0.46    3.33   HXZ variant
                                                                       Ball et al. (2016)                       Cash-based oper prof lagged assets qtrly   CBOperProfLagAT_q       Indirect Evidence        0.86    6.19   HXZ variant
                                                                       Ball et al. (2016)                       Oper prof R&D adj lagged assets            OperProfRDLagAT         Indirect Evidence        0.05    0.33   HXZ variant

                                                                       continued on next page
                                                                                                                                                      Table 4: (continued)

                                                                                                                                                                                     Predictor            Reproduction   Original Study’s Predictability Evidence
                                                                       Original / Related Study                   Predictor                                 Acronym
                                                                                                                                                                                     Category            Mean Ret t-Stat (if Available)

                                                                       Ball et al. (2016)                         Oper prof R&D adj lagged assets (qtrly)   OperProfRDLagAT_q        Indirect Evidence        1.17    5.56   HXZ variant




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                       Barbee, Mukherji and Raines (1996)         Sales-to-price quarterly                  SP_q                     Indirect Evidence        1.18    4.93   HXZ variant
                                                                       Basu (1977)                                Earnings-to-Price Ratio                   EPq                      Indirect Evidence        1.31    6.79   HXZ variant
                                                                       Belo, Lin and Vitorino (2014)              Brand capital to assets                   BrandCapital             Indirect Evidence        0.24    1.25   not studied for predictability
                                                                       Bhandari (1988)                            Market leverage quarterly                 Leverage_q               Indirect Evidence        0.26    0.79   HXZ variant
                                                                       Blitz, Huij and Martens (2011)             6 month residual momentum                 ResidualMomentum6m       Indirect Evidence        0.39    4.08   HXZ variant
                                                                       Boudoukh et al. (2007)                     Net Payout Yield quarterly                NetPayoutYield_q         Indirect Evidence        0.76    2.04   HXZ variant
                                                                       Boudoukh et al. (2007)                     Payout Yield quarterly                    PayoutYield_q            Indirect Evidence        0.72    6.16   HXZ variant
                                                                       Brown and Rowe (2007)                      Return on invested capital                roic                     Not Predictor            0.08    0.33   t=0.9 in port sort
                                                                       Callen, Khan and Lu (2013)                 Accounting component of price delay       DelayAcct                Not Predictor           -0.16   -0.83   t=1 in long-short
                                                                       Callen, Khan and Lu (2013)                 Non-accounting component of price delay   DelayNonAcct             Not Predictor            0.27    1.70   t=1 in long-short
                                                                       Campbell, Hilscher and Szilagyi (2008)     Failure probability                       FailureProbability       Not Predictor            0.40    0.91   t=1.5 in conservative port sort
                                                                       Campbell, Hilscher and Szilagyi (2008)     Failure probability                       FailureProbabilityJune   Indirect Evidence        0.03    0.07   HXZ variant
                                                                       Chan, Lakonishok and Sougiannis (2001)     R&D over market cap quarterly             RD_q                     Indirect Evidence        1.89    5.23   HXZ variant
                                                                       Chan, Lakonishok and Sougiannis (2001)     R&D to sales                              rd_sale                  Not Predictor            0.12    0.53   8 bps spread in port sort
                                                                  64   Chan, Lakonishok and Sougiannis (2001)     R&D to sales                              rd_sale_q                Indirect Evidence        0.71    1.48   HXZ variant
                                                                       Cooper, Gulen and Schill (2008)            Asset growth quarterly                    AssetGrowth_q            Indirect Evidence       -0.94   -4.84   HXZ variant
                                                                       Desai, Rajgopal, Venkatachalam (2004)      Operating Cash flows to price quarterly   cfpq                     Indirect Evidence        1.07    8.12   HXZ variant
                                                                       Dichev (1998)                              O Score quarterly                         OScore_q                 Indirect Evidence       -1.10   -3.02   HXZ variant
                                                                       Dichev (1998)                              Altman Z-Score                            ZScore                   Not Predictor           -0.35   -1.20   t=1.59 in univar reg
                                                                       Dichev (1998)                              Altman Z-Score quarterly                  ZScore_q                 Indirect Evidence       -0.13   -0.47   HXZ variant
                                                                       Dimson (1979)                              Dimson Beta                               BetaDimson               Indirect Evidence       -0.23   -1.53   only shown to forecast beta
                                                                       Eisfeldt and Papanikolaou (2013)           Org cap w/o industry adjustment           OrgCapNoAdj              Indirect Evidence        0.64    3.31   HXZ variant
                                                                       Elgers, Lo and Pfeiffer (2001)             Number of analysts                        nanalyst                 Indirect Evidence        0.19    1.02   spread in median ret each leg size adj
                                                                       Fama and French (1992)                     Total assets to market (quarterly)        AMq                      Indirect Evidence        0.78    3.31   HXZ variant
                                                                       Fama and French (1992)                     Book leverage (quarterly)                 BookLeverageQuarterly    Indirect Evidence       -0.23   -1.59   HXZ variant
                                                                       Fama and French (2006)                     operating profits / book equity           OperProfLag              Indirect Evidence        0.40    1.81   HXZ variant
                                                                       Fama and French (2006)                     operating profits / book equity           OperProfLag_q            Indirect Evidence        1.02    3.40   HXZ variant
                                                                       Fama and MacBeth (1973)                    CAPM beta squred                          BetaSquared              Not Predictor           -0.66   -1.71   t=0.3 in mv reg
                                                                       Francis, LaFond, Olsson, Schipper (2004)   Earnings conservatism                     EarningsConservatism     Indirect Evidence       -0.00   -0.01   correlated with BM and other predictors
                                                                       Francis, LaFond, Olsson, Schipper (2004)   Earnings persistence                      EarningsPersistence      Indirect Evidence       -0.21   -1.59   correlated with BM and other predictors
                                                                       Francis, LaFond, Olsson, Schipper (2004)   Earnings Predictability                   EarningsPredictability   Indirect Evidence       -0.60   -3.49   correlated with BM and other predictors
                                                                       Francis, LaFond, Olsson, Schipper (2004)   Earnings Smoothness                       EarningsSmoothness       Indirect Evidence        0.02    0.11   correlated with BM and other predictors
                                                                       Francis, LaFond, Olsson, Schipper (2004)   Earnings timeliness                       EarningsTimeliness       Indirect Evidence       -0.02   -0.21   correlated with BM and other predictors
                                                                       Francis, LaFond, Olsson, Schipper (2004)   Value relevance of earnings               EarningsValueRelevance   Indirect Evidence       -0.02   -0.32   correlated with BM and other predictors

                                                                       continued on next page
                                                                                                                                                        Table 4: (continued)

                                                                                                                                                                                      Predictor            Reproduction   Original Study’s Predictability Evidence
                                                                       Original / Related Study                   Predictor                               Acronym
                                                                                                                                                                                      Category            Mean Ret t-Stat (if Available)

                                                                       Francis, LaFond, Olsson, Schipper (2004)   RoA volatility                          roavol                      Indirect Evidence       -0.07 -0.19 correlated with BM and other predictors




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                       Francis, LaFond, Olsson, Schipper (2005)   Accrual Quality                         AccrualQuality              Indirect Evidence        0.16   0.62 correlated with E/P and factor structure
                                                                       Francis, LaFond, Olsson, Schipper (2005)   Accrual Quality in June                 AccrualQualityJune          Indirect Evidence        0.19   0.73 HXZ variant
                                                                       Frankel and Lee (1998)                     Intrinsic or historical value           IntrinsicValue              Indirect Evidence        0.48   2.45 not studied. Ingredient variable.
                                                                       Franzoni and Marin (2006)                  Pension Funding Status                  FRbook                      Indirect Evidence        0.32   2.58 HXZ variant
                                                                       Hafzalla, Lundholm, Van Winkle (2011)      Percent Abnormal Accruals               AbnormalAccrualsPercent     Indirect Evidence       -0.29 -4.09 HXZ variant
                                                                       Hahn and Lee (2009)                        Tangibility quarterly                   tang_q                      Indirect Evidence        0.85   5.84 HXZ variant
                                                                       Haugen and Baker (1996)                    Capital turnover                        CapTurnover                 Indirect Evidence        0.25   1.23 t<2 in mv reg nonstandard
                                                                       Haugen and Baker (1996)                    Capital turnover (quarterly)            CapTurnover_q               Indirect Evidence        0.85   4.68 HXZ variant
                                                                       Holthausen and Larcker (1992)              Depreciation to PPE                     depr                        Indirect Evidence        0.28   1.02 ingredient in complicated model
                                                                       Holthausen and Larcker (1992)              Change in depreciation to PPE           pchdepr                     Indirect Evidence        0.18   1.66 ingredient in complicated model
                                                                       Hou and Loh (2016)                         Bid-ask spread (TAQ)                    BidAskTAQ                   Not Predictor            0.12   0.41 t=1.3 in mv reg
                                                                       La Porta (1996)                            Long-term EPS forecast (Monthly)        fgr5yrNoLag                 Indirect Evidence       -0.66 -1.60 HXZ variant
                                                                       Lakonishok, Shleifer, Vishny (1994)        Cash flow to market quarterly           CFq                         Indirect Evidence        1.69 10.62 HXZ variant
                                                                       Lakonishok, Shleifer, Vishny (1994)        Annual sales growth                     sgr                         Indirect Evidence       -0.60 -4.25 HXZ variant
                                                                  65   Lakonishok, Shleifer, Vishny (1994)        Annual sales growth quarterly           sgr_q                       Indirect Evidence        0.60   3.51 HXZ variant
                                                                       Lamont, Polk and Saa-Requejo (2001)        Kaplan Zingales index                   KZ                          Not Predictor            0.08   0.53 t=1.1 in conservative port sort
                                                                       Lamont, Polk and Saa-Requejo (2001)        Kaplan Zingales index quarterly         KZ_q                        Indirect Evidence       -1.49 -9.23 HXZ variant
                                                                       Lev and Nissim (2004)                      Taxable income to income (qtrly)        Tax_q                       Indirect Evidence        0.03   0.23 HXZ variant
                                                                       Loughran and Wellman (2011)                Enterprise Multiple quarterly           EntMult_q                   Indirect Evidence       -1.59 -11.96 HXZ variant
                                                                       Naranjo, Nimalendran, Ryngaert (1998)      Dividend yield for small stocks         DivYield                    Indirect Evidence        0.34   1.11 mixed results, small spread
                                                                       Naranjo, Nimalendran, Ryngaert (1998)      Last year’s dividends over price        DivYieldAnn                 Indirect Evidence        0.01   0.11 HXZ variant
                                                                       Novy-Marx (2010)                           Operating leverage (qtrly)              OPLeverage_q                Indirect Evidence        0.39   2.37 HXZ variant
                                                                       Novy-Marx (2013)                           gross profits / total assets            GPlag                       Indirect Evidence        0.20   1.85 HXZ variant
                                                                       Novy-Marx (2013)                           gross profits / total assets            GPlag_q                     Indirect Evidence        0.88   6.17 HXZ variant
                                                                       Ortiz-Molina and Phillips (2014)           Asset liquidity over book assets        AssetLiquidityBook          Indirect Evidence        0.35   1.37 no predictability. Correlated with ICC
                                                                       Ortiz-Molina and Phillips (2014)           Asset liquidity over book (qtrly)       AssetLiquidityBookQuart     Indirect Evidence        0.31   0.96 HXZ variant
                                                                       Ortiz-Molina and Phillips (2014)           Asset liquidity over market             AssetLiquidityMarket        Indirect Evidence        1.41   7.46 no predictability. Correlated with ICC
                                                                       Ortiz-Molina and Phillips (2014)           Asset liquidity over market (qtrly)     AssetLiquidityMarketQuart   Indirect Evidence        1.31   6.35 HXZ variant
                                                                       Ou and Penman (1989)                       CF to debt                              cashdebt                    Indirect Evidence       -0.06 -0.21 ingredient in complicated model
                                                                       Ou and Penman (1989)                       Current Ratio                           currat                      Indirect Evidence        0.29   1.93 ingredient in complicated model
                                                                       Ou and Penman (1989)                       Change in Current Ratio                 pchcurrat                   Indirect Evidence        0.21   2.54 ingredient in complicated model
                                                                       Ou and Penman (1989)                       Change in quick ratio                   pchquick                    Indirect Evidence        0.32   3.27 ingredient in complicated model
                                                                       Ou and Penman (1989)                       Change in sales to inventory            pchsaleinv                  Indirect Evidence        0.49   5.24 ingredient in complicated model
                                                                       Ou and Penman (1989)                       Quick ratio                             quick                       Indirect Evidence        0.30   1.77 ingredient in complicated model

                                                                       continued on next page
                                                                                                                                                      Table 4: (continued)

                                                                                                                                                                             Predictor            Reproduction   Original Study’s Predictability Evidence
                                                                       Original / Related Study               Predictor                                 Acronym
                                                                                                                                                                             Category            Mean Ret t-Stat (if Available)

                                                                       Ou and Penman (1989)                   Sales to cash ratio                       salecash             Indirect Evidence        0.22    1.31   ingredient in complicated model




Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
                                                                       Ou and Penman (1989)                   Sales to inventory                        saleinv              Indirect Evidence        0.03    0.18   ingredient in complicated model
                                                                       Ou and Penman (1989)                   Sales to receivables                      salerec              Indirect Evidence        0.29    1.53   ingredient in complicated model
                                                                       Penman, Richardson and Tuna (2007)     Enterprise component of BM                EBM_q                Indirect Evidence        0.81    7.09   HXZ variant
                                                                       Penman, Richardson and Tuna (2007)     Net debt to price                         NetDebtPrice_q       Indirect Evidence       -0.73   -3.78   HXZ variant
                                                                       Piotroski (2000)                       Piotroski F-score                         PS_q                 Indirect Evidence        1.39    6.35   HXZ variant
                                                                       Richardson et al. (2005)               Change in short-term investment           DelSTI               Not Predictor           -0.04   -0.53   t=0.4 in mv reg
                                                                       Rosenberg, Reid, and Lanstein (1985)   Book to market (quarterly)                BMq                  Indirect Evidence        1.65    3.67   HXZ variant
                                                                       Soliman (2008)                         Asset Turnover                            AssetTurnover        Indirect Evidence        0.40    2.23   t=0.3 in mv reg
                                                                       Soliman (2008)                         Asset Turnover                            AssetTurnover_q      Indirect Evidence        0.59    3.10   HXZ variant
                                                                       Soliman (2008)                         Change in Noncurrent Operating Assets     ChNCOA               Indirect Evidence       -1.02   -5.68   No predictability. Ingredient for predictor.
                                                                       Soliman (2008)                         Change in Noncurrent Operating Liab       ChNCOL               Indirect Evidence       -0.54   -3.60   No predictability. Ingredient for predictor.
                                                                       Soliman (2008)                         Change in Profit Margin                   ChPM                 Indirect Evidence        0.11    1.35   t=0.3 in mv reg
                                                                       Soliman (2008)                         Profit Margin                             PM                   Indirect Evidence        0.52    1.94   t=1 in mv reg
                                                                       Soliman (2008)                         Profit Margin                             PM_q                 Indirect Evidence        1.29    2.88   HXZ variant
                                                                  66   Soliman (2008)                         Return on Net Operating Assets            RetNOA               Indirect Evidence        0.01    0.05   t=1.4 in mv reg
                                                                       Soliman (2008)                         Return on Net Operating Assets            RetNOA_q             Indirect Evidence        1.26    3.25   HXZ variant
                                                                       Valta (2016)                           Secured debt                              secured              Indirect Evidence       -0.00   -0.04   t > 1.96 in mv reg
                                                                       Valta (2016)                           Secured debt indicator                    securedind           Indirect Evidence       -0.06   -0.69   GHZ variant
                                                                       Whited and Wu (2006)                   Whited-Wu index                           WW                   Not Predictor            0.38    1.34   t=1.3 in port sort
                                                                       Whited and Wu (2006)                   Whited-Wu index                           WW_Q                 Indirect Evidence        0.50    1.31   HXZ variant
A.    Appendix

Figure A.1: Reproduced vs Original t-Stats by Other Subsets of Predictors. De-
scription: We compare reproduced t-stats (original sample period) to original
t-stats. Top panels show subsets based on the length of the in-sample period.
Bottom panels show subsets based the data focus. We include clear and likely
predictors, exclude regressions and event studies, and drop predictors from Bar-
ber et al. 2001 Frazzini and Pedersen 2014, Hou and Moskowitz 2005 (see Section
2). Reproductions use raw returns but originals may include adjustments. Inter-
pretation: Reproductions are closer to the originals for longer in-sample periods
and for price data focused predictors.


      (a) In-Sample Period > 30 years               (b) In-Sample Period ≤ 30 years




           (c) Price Data Focus                       (d) Accounting Data Focus




                                          67

            Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
Figure A.2: Post-Publication vs In-Sample Performance. Description: We com-
pare the post-publication mean return to the in-sample mean return. OLS fit is
shown using either predictors in MP (solid line) or predictors not in MP (dashed
line). Shaded area is 2 S.E. Interpretation: Post-publication returns are smaller
than in-sample returns, but remain positive. Predictors with high in-sample re-
turns have higher post-publication returns on average, despite having higher
post-publication decay (Figure 8).




                                         68

           Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604626
