 
Accrual Reliability, Earnings Persistence and Stock Prices* 
 
Scott A. Richardsona, Richard G. Sloanb,+, Mark T. Solimanc and Irem Tunaa 
 
aThe Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 
bUniversity of Michigan Business School, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 
cGraduate School of Business, Stanford University, Stanford, CA  94305 
 
First Version: July 2001 
This version: January 2004 
 
Abstract 
This paper extends the work of Sloan (1996) by linking accrual reliability to earnings 
persistence.  We construct a model showing that less reliable accruals lead to lower earnings 
persistence.  We then develop a comprehensive balance sheet categorization of accruals and rate 
each category according to the reliability of the underlying accruals.  Empirical tests generally 
confirm that less reliable categories of accruals lead to lower earnings persistence and that 
investors do not fully anticipate the lower earnings persistence, leading to significant security 
mispricing.  We conclude that there are significant costs associated with the recognition of 
unreliable information in financial statements. 
 
Keywords: Accruals; Reliability; Earnings persistence, Capital markets; Market efficiency. 
JEL classification: M4 
 
 
+Corresponding Author
                                                          
*We would like to thank Mary Barth, Bill Beaver, Patricia Dechow, Paul Healy, Ron Kahn, S.P. Kothari, Katherine 
Schipper, Stephen Taylor, Ross Watts (the editor), the referee and workshop participants at the AAANZ 2002 
Annual Meetings, Barclays Global Investors, Chicago Quantitative Alliance 2003 Conference, University of 
Colorado, University of Illinois, Institute for Quantitative Research in Finance 2003 Conference, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Prudential Securities 2002 Quantitative Conference, Stanford University, University of 
Technology Sydney and University of Utah for their comments and suggestions.  Earlier versions of this paper were 
titled “Information in Accruals about the Quality of Earnings”. 

 
1
1. 
Introduction 
This paper investigates the relation between accrual reliability and earnings 
persistence.  The paper builds on the work of Sloan (1996), who shows that the accrual 
component of earnings is less persistent than the cash flow component of earnings and 
attributes this difference to the greater subjectivity of accruals.  We draw a natural link 
between Sloan’s notion of subjectivity and the well-known accounting concept of 
reliability.  We formally model the implications of reliability for earnings persistence, 
with our model predicting that less reliable accruals result in lower earnings persistence.  
Our empirical tests employ a comprehensive categorization of accounting accruals in 
which each accrual category is rated according to its reliability.  Consistent with the 
predictions of our model, the empirical tests generally confirm that less reliable accruals 
lead to lower earnings persistence. 
Our paper makes three significant contributions to the existing literature.  First, 
we directly link reliability to empirically observable properties of accounting numbers.  
Reliability, along with relevance, is considered to be one of the two primary qualities that 
make accounting information useful for decision-making.1  While a large body of 
research examines the value relevance of accounting numbers, there is relatively little 
research on reliability.  One consequence of the emphasis on relevance has been calls for 
the recognition of more relevant and less reliable information in accounting numbers 
(e.g., Lev and Sougiannis, 1996).  However, as recently articulated by Watts (2003), 
allowing less verifiable and hence less reliable estimates into accounting numbers can 
                                                          
1 For example, see Figure 1 in Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts 2, “Qualitative Characteristics 
of Accounting Information” (Financial Accounting Standards Board, 2002). 

 
2
seriously compromise their usefulness.  Our research highlights the crucial trade-off 
between relevance and reliability.  The recognition of less reliable information in 
accounting numbers introduces measurement error that reduces earnings’ persistence.  
Moreover, our stock price tests indicate that investors do not fully anticipate the lower 
persistence of less reliable earnings, leading to significant security mispricing. 
A second major contribution of our work is to provide a comprehensive definition 
and categorization of accruals.  Following Healy (1985), a large body of research has 
employed a narrow definition of accruals that focuses on current operating accruals.  
Long-term operating accruals, such as capitalized software development costs and 
capitalized expenditures on plant and equipment, are ignored under Healy’s definition.  
Ignoring such accruals results in noisy measures of both accruals and cash flows (because 
cash flows are typically computed as the difference between earnings and accruals).  Our 
evidence indicates that many of the accruals that are omitted from Healy’s definition are 
of low reliability, suggesting that accruals-based research should incorporate these 
omitted accruals. 
Along similar lines, our analysis also provides a reinterpretation of the results in 
Fairfield, Whisenant and Yohn (2003a).  Fairfield et al. show that Sloan’s (1996) accrual 
results extend to growth in long-term net operating assets.  Based on this evidence, they 
conclude that Sloan’s findings are not unique to accruals, but are a special case of a more 
general growth anomaly.  In contrast, we point out that long-term operating assets and 
liabilities are also accounting accruals and we show that the effect of these accruals on 
earnings persistence is related to their reliability.  As such, the results documented by 

 
3
Fairfield et al. can be interpreted as a natural extension of Sloan’s accrual anomaly rather 
than a more general growth anomaly.2 
The third major contribution of our work is to corroborate and extend Sloan’s 
findings regarding the mispricing of the accrual component of earnings.  Sloan shows that 
investors act as if they do not anticipate the lower persistence of the accrual component 
of earnings, resulting in significant security mispricing.  We corroborate and extend 
Sloan’s results in two ways.  First, we develop a more comprehensive definition of 
accruals than Sloan and show that it is associated with even greater mispricing.  Second, 
we show that both the persistence of earnings and the extent of the associated mispricing 
are directly related to the reliability of the underlying accruals. 
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows.  The next section develops 
our research design.  Section 3 describes our data, section 4 presents our results and 
section 5 concludes. 
 
2. 
Research Design 
Our research design builds on Sloan (1996), who argues that the key difference 
between the accrual and cash flow components of earnings is that the accrual component 
involves a greater degree of subjectivity.  The accrual component of earnings typically 
incorporates estimates of future cash flows, deferrals of past cash flows, allocations and 
valuations, all of which involve higher subjectivity than simply measuring periodic cash 
                                                          
2 Fairfield et al. argue that their more general growth anomaly is likely attributable to conservative 
accounting or diminishing returns to scale rather than features of accruals, such as their susceptibility to 
manipulation.  In related research (Richardson et al., 2004), we show that Fairfield et al.’s results cannot be 
explained by conservative accounting or diminishing returns to scale, but present evidence that they are 
consistent with accrual manipulation. 

 
4
flows.  This leads Sloan to reason that when the accrual component of earnings is 
unusually high or low, earnings will be less persistent. 
We begin in section 2.1 by formalizing Sloan’s intuition and linking it to the 
accounting construct of reliability.  Section 2.2 reconsiders the standard definition of 
accruals and proposes a new and more comprehensive definition.  Finally, section 2.3 
provides our categorization of accruals and our assessment of the relative reliability of 
each accrual category. 
 
2.1 
A Model of Accrual Reliability and Earnings Persistence 
Sloan argues that the key factor driving the different properties of the accrual and 
cash flow components of earnings is the greater subjectivity involved in the estimation of 
accruals.  Accountants more typically refer to the degree of subjectivity involved in an 
accounting measurement in terms of the verifiability of that measurement.  For example, 
the Financial Accounting Standard Board’s (FASB) Statements of Financial Accounting 
Concepts (SFAC) defines verifiability as: 
 
“The ability through consensus among measurers to ensure that information 
represents what it purports to represent or that the chosen method of measurement 
has been used without error or bias.” [SFAC 2, Glossary of Terms] 
 
Verifiability, along with representational faithfulness, provides the basis for the key 
accounting quality of reliability, defined by the FASB as: 
 
“The quality of information that assures that information is reasonably free from 
error and bias and faithfully represents what it purports to represent.” [SFAC 2, 
Glossary of Terms] 

 
5
Accrual accounting can provide more relevant information to investors.  
However, it can also introduce error and bias, resulting in less reliable information.  
Maximizing the usefulness of accrual accounting information therefore involves a trade-
off between relevance and reliability (see SFAC 2, paragraph 42).  A large body of 
accounting literature has evaluated accounting information on the basis of the relevance 
criterion (see Holthausen and Watts, 2001).  However, relatively little attention has been 
given to evaluating accounting information on the basis of the reliability criterion.  Given 
the one-sided nature of research in this area, it is perhaps not surprising that some 
researchers and regulators have called for more value-relevant and less verifiable 
estimates to be incorporated into accounting numbers (see Watts, 2003 for examples).  
However, as articulated by Watts (2003), researchers and regulators who propose the 
recognition of unverifiable estimates in financial reports should consider the costs 
generated by their proposals.  We examine one such cost.  Following Sloan (1996), we 
examine the implications of accrual reliability for the persistence of earnings. 
We model the impact of accrual reliability on the persistence of earnings using 
standard errors-in-variables analysis.  The primary role of earnings is to measure the 
periodic financial performance of an enterprise (see SFAC 1, paragraph 43).  We denote 
the underlying periodic performance of the enterprise as E*.  It is well established that 
competitive forces result in the dissipation of economic rents, and that this is expected to 
result in the mean reversion of financial performance (e.g., Palepu, Healy and Bernard, 
2000).  Thus, even in the absence of reliability issues, we expect financial performance 

 
6
(deflated by an appropriate measure of invested capital) to follow a mean reverting 
process:3 
 
E*
t+1 = γ E*
t  + εt+1 
(1) 
where 0<γ<1 and greater competition implies lower values of γ. 
We can make the definition of underlying ‘economic’ earnings, E*, more concrete 
by considering the special case in which the cash consequences of a business’s 
transactions and events all occur during a single performance measurement interval.  
Such a situation would arise when the operating and investing cycles of the business are 
very short.  In this case, the net cash receipts of the business provide a completely reliable 
representation of periodic performance.  Denoting the net cash receipts as C, this special 
case therefore results in: 
 
E* = C 
(2) 
Next, we introduce the more realistic situation in which the actual cash receipts 
and disbursements occur in different periods from the underlying transactions and events 
that generate them.  In this case E* does not necessarily equal C and accounting accruals 
are introduced in order to provide a better measure of periodic performance than periodic 
net cash receipts.  Accrual accounting involves the accrual and deferral of past, current 
and anticipated future cash receipts and disbursements.  However, earnings measured 
using accrual accounting are not expected to perfectly coincide with E* for two reasons.  
First, accruals and deferrals relating to future economic benefits that cannot be measured 
with sufficient reliability are disallowed under GAAP (e.g., immediate expensing of 
                                                          
3 For expositional ease, our model reverts E* toward a mean of zero.  The analysis is easily adapted to non-
zero mean by redefining E* as the deviation from the long-run mean performance.  Our empirical analysis 
allows for a non-zero mean through the inclusion of an intercept in the regression. 

 
7
R&D costs).  This results in an omitted variable problem that is not explored in this 
paper.4  Second, many accruals required by GAAP measure the future economic benefits 
of current period events and transactions with error. It is the latter scenario that serves as 
the focus of this paper. 
As an example of this second situation, consider the recognition of sales revenue.  
If cash sales are made for $100 (with no returns allowed and no after sales service), then 
it is straightforward to book $100 of revenue in current period earnings.  But if the sales 
are credit sales for $110, of which $100 ultimately ends up being collected as cash in the 
next period, uncertainty exists about the amount to record in current period earnings.  An 
aggressive manager could book sales of $110, representing an error of +10 in current 
period accruals and earnings.  Conversely, a conservative manager could book sales of 
$90, representing an error of –10 in current period accruals and earnings.  This results in 
an errors-in-variables problem in accruals, because observed accruals are noisy measures 
of the future benefits or obligations that they represent.  Note that while we characterize 
the errors as resulting from aggressive and conservative accounting respectively, we do 
not mean to imply that all errors result from intentional earnings management.  They 
could also result from the neutral application of GAAP (e.g., a one-off gain from a LIFO 
                                                          
4 The omission of a relevant variable results in biased coefficient estimates on the included variables when 
the omitted variable is correlated with the included variables.  However, we have no reason to believe that 
any omitted accruals would differentially bias the cash flow and included accrual components of earnings.  
Penman and Zhang (2002) provide evidence of predictable changes in earnings and stock returns associated 
with omitted accruals for research and development and advertising expenditures.  In order to verify the 
robustness of our results with respect to these omitted accruals, we reconstructed the omitted accruals 
following Penman and Zhang’s procedures (the ‘C’ score) and included them in our earnings and stock 
return regressions.  Their inclusion had no significant impact on our results. 

 
8
inventory liquidation) and unintentional errors (e.g., overestimating the creditworthiness 
of a new customer, or overestimating the value of work-in-process inventory).5 
To develop the errors in variables representation of this problem, we first define 
A* as the unobservable ‘perfect foresight’ accrual that would result in an earnings 
performance measure equal to E*. 
 
A* = E* - C 
(3) 
Referring back to the example above, A* represents the $100 amount that is ultimately 
collected on the credit sales.  We next define observed accruals as the sum of A* and an 
error term, e, that is assumed to be uncorrelated with C and A*:6 
 
A = A* + e 
(4) 
In the example above, e would be +10 for the aggressive manager and –10 for the 
conservative manager.  The ‘true’ earnings persistence relation can be written in terms of 
unobservable ‘perfect foresight’ earnings, observable cash flows and the unobservable 
‘perfect-foresight’ accruals as:7 
                                                          
5 Following Watts (2003), the application of conservative accounting should lead to larger errors for 
accruals resulting in losses, because conservatism imposes a lower verifiability threshold for the 
recognition losses versus profits.  On the other hand, opportunistic managers with limited tenures and 
limited liability have incentives to introduce errors that result in profits.  We do not attempt to discriminate 
between the relative importances of these different sources of errors in this paper. 
6 The assumption that e is uncorrelated with C and A* is required to make the analysis tractable.  While this 
assumption represents a logical starting point, one can think of arguments as to why e may be correlated 
with C and A*.  For example, the argument that managers try to smooth earnings would suggest a negative 
correlation between e and both C and A*.  On the other hand, the argument that managers take big baths 
during periods of poor performance would suggest a positive correlation between e and both C and A*.  
Given the ambiguity concerning the potential sign of the correlation and the intractability of trying to 
incorporate it into our analysis, we generate predictions under the simple assumption of no correlation and 
investigate how well the resulting predictions describe the data. 
7 Our model focuses exclusively on the impact of errors in accruals on the relative persistence of the cash 
flow and accrual components of earnings.  We therefore assume that if accruals could be measured without 
error, the persistence coefficients on the cash flow and accrual components of earnings would be identical.  
However, it is likely that the persistence coefficients on the cash flow and accrual components of earnings 
will differ for other reasons.  Indeed, in editorial correspondence Ross Watts indicates that both he and S.P. 
Kothari independently came to that conclusion by extending the algebraic model developed in Dechow, 
Kothari and Watts (1998).  Thus, we caution that our research invokes the standard ceteris paribus 

 
9
 
E*
t+1 = γ C 
t + γ A*
t + εt+1 
(5) 
If we replace E* and A* with their observable counterparts, E and A, we have the classic 
errors-in-variables model for two explanatory variables where one is measured with 
error: 
 
Et+1 = γ Ct + γ At + ωt+1 
(6) 
where ωt+1 = εt+1 + et+1 - γ et. 
Because ωt+1 is correlated with At through the mutual inclusion of et, the estimated 
coefficients on C (γC) and A (γA) will provide biased estimates of γ.8  Griliches and 
Ringstad (1971) show that the biases are given by:9 
 
 
A
C,
2
A
1
var(A)
var(e)
-
 
 
γ)
(γ
ρ
γ
−
=
−
 
(7) 
 
 
γ)
(γ
- 
 
γ)
(γ
A
C,
C
−
=
−
A
ρ
 
(8) 
where var(e) and var(A) denote the variance of e and A respectively and ρC,A denotes the 
correlation between C and A.  Equation (7) indicates that γA is biased downward towards 
zero, with the bias increasing in var(e)/var(A), the proportion of the total variation in 
observed accruals (A) that is attributable to measurement error (e). 
                                                                                                                                                                             
assumption and focuses only on developing and testing predictions relating to the impact of accrual 
reliability on earnings persistence. 
8 An additional source of bias is introduced if errors in accruals reverse in the next period.  These reversals 
induce a negative correlation between et and et+1, which will exaggerate the biases described below, but do 
not affect their directions or relative magnitudes. 
9 This derivation is based on the assumption that the cash flow component of earnings is measured without 
error.  If both cash flows and accruals are measured with error, the biases in the coefficients will depend on 
the variance-covariance matrix of the errors (see Klepper and Leamer, 1984).  We conducted simulations 
confirming that if one variable is measured with significantly greater error than the other, the downward 
bias continues to be much greater in the estimated coefficient on the variable with the greater error (our 
main simulations use an error variance ratio of 5 to 1).  Thus, as a practical matter, the predictions of our 
model simply require that accruals are measured with significantly greater error than cash flows. 

 
10
In terms of our earlier example, var(e)/var(A) is increasing in the range of 
plausible values that the error can take.  More unreliable accruals lead to greater potential 
errors, resulting in an increase in var(e).  We can modify our original example to make 
the accruals more unreliable by assuming that we make credit sales of $110 of which $90 
ultimately ends up being collected as cash in the next period.  Further assume that an 
aggressive manager could book sales of $110, representing an error of +20 in current 
period accruals and earnings, while a conservative manager could book sales of $70, 
representing an error of –20 in current period accruals and earnings.  As the range of 
possible errors increases, var(e)/var(A) will increase.  The point is that the more 
uncertainty there is about the amount of cash that will ultimately be collected, the greater 
the range of possible accruals that can be plausibly booked.  Var(e)/Var(A) therefore 
provides a natural measure of the reliability of accruals, with a higher value representing 
lower reliability. 
Equation (7) indicates that the bias in γA is also increasing in the strength of the 
correlation between cash flows and accruals.  We know from previous research (see 
Dechow, 1994) that this correlation is around –0.6 for annual data, exaggerating the 
downward bias by over 50%.  The bias in γC is a function of the correlation between 
observed accruals and cash flows and the bias in γA.  Using the historical average annual 
correlation between accruals and cash flows of around –0.6, γC will also have a 
downward bias, but it will only be 60% as large as the downward bias in γA. 
The above analysis generates two testable predictions for our empirical research: 

 
11
1. 
Ceteris paribus, the magnitude of the downward bias in the persistence 
coefficients will always be greater for the accrual component of earnings than for 
the cash flow component of earnings (i.e., γA - γC < 0). 
2. 
Ceteris paribus, the downward bias in the persistence coefficients on the accrual 
components of earnings relative to the cash flow component of earnings, (γA - γC), 
is increasing in the proportion of the variation in accruals that is attributable to 
measurement error.  This leads to the prediction that (γA - γC) will be more 
negative for less reliable accruals. 
 
2.2 
Definition of Accruals 
Sloan (1996) follows the convention in academic research of defining accruals as 
the change in non-cash working capital less depreciation expense.  This convention can 
be traced back at least as far as Healy (1985) and corresponds closely with the definition 
of operating accruals used in the FASB’s Statement of Financial Accounting Standard 
Number 95 “Statement of Cash Flows”.  However, this definition of accruals omits many 
accruals and deferrals relating to non-current operating assets, non-current operating 
liabilities, non-cash financial assets and financial liabilities. 
To formally derive a comprehensive measure of accruals, we begin by noting that 
in the absence of accrual accounting, the only asset or liability account appearing on the 
balance sheet would be the cash asset account.  All other asset and liability accounts are 
products of the accrual accounting process.  Net assets would therefore equal cash, and 
through the balance sheet identity, owners’ equity would also equal cash: 
Cash Basis Net Assets = Cash = Cash Basis Owners Equity 

 
12
Earnings under the cash basis of accounting, ‘cash earnings’, can then be derived through 
the clean surplus relation as: 
Cash Earningst = Change in Cash Basis Owners’ Equityt + Net Cash Distributions to Equityt 
 
 = Change in Casht + Net Cash Distributions to Equityt 
Net cash distributions to equity holders represents all cash payments from the firm to 
equity holders (i.e., cash dividends plus stock repurchases less equity issuances).  This 
expression tells us that cash earnings represent the net cash receipts of the firm, exclusive 
of the effect of any cash distributions (receipts) to (from) equity holders. 
Conventional accrual-based earnings can be defined through the usual definition 
of net assets: 
Accrual Earningst = Change in Owners’ Equityt + Net Cash Distributions to Equityt 
 
= Change in Net Assetst + Net Cash Distributions to Equityt 
= Change in Assetst – Change in Liabilitiest + Net Cash Distributions to Equityt 
Accruals represent the difference between accrual earnings and cash earnings: 
Accrualst = Accrual Earningst – Cash Earningst 
 
= Change in Non-Cash Assetst – Change in Liabilitiest 
Without accrual accounting, the only asset or liability is cash, and so accruals represent 
the change in all non-cash assets less the change in all liabilities. 
This comprehensive definition of accruals differs from the definition of accruals 
used by Healy (1985), Sloan (1996) and others in several key respects.  First, this 
definition incorporates accruals relating to non-current operating assets, such as capital 
expenditures.  Healy’s definition ignores the origination of non-current operating asset 
accruals and only incorporates the reversal of a subset of non-current operating asset 

 
13
accruals through subtraction of depreciation expense.  Second, our definition of accruals 
incorporates accruals relating to non-current operating liabilities, such as post-retirement 
benefit obligations.  Third, our definition of accruals incorporates accruals relating to 
financial assets, such as long-term receivables.  Finally, our definition of accruals 
incorporates financing accruals related to financial liabilities, such as long-term debt.  
While the nature and potential reliability of these accruals are all quite different, they are 
nevertheless all manifestations of the accrual accounting process.  By starting with a 
comprehensive definition of accruals and then evaluating the reliability of different 
categories of accruals, we seek to provide a comprehensive analysis of the information 
content of accruals. 
 
2.3 
Categorization of Accruals 
The balance sheet provides a systematic classification of accounting accruals 
based on the nature of the underlying benefits or obligations that they represent.  Some 
balance sheet categories, such as marketable securities and short-term debt, can generally 
be measured with high reliability.  Other balance sheet classifications, such as accounts 
receivable and intangible assets, are generally measured with lower reliability.  In this 
section, we decompose accruals along broad balance sheet categories and use our 
knowledge of the measurement issues underlying each accrual category to make 
qualitative assessments concerning the relative reliability of each category.  These 
assessments provide the basis for predictions concerning the relative magnitudes of the 
persistence coefficients on each of the accrual categories. 

 
14
Our complete balance sheet decomposition is illustrated in table 1 and a summary 
of our reliability assessments is provided in table 2.  Our initial balance sheet 
decomposition is based on the nature of the underlying business activity that is 
represented. We use three broad categories of business activities - current operating 
activities, non-current operating activities and financing activities. We refer to the 
resulting accrual categories as the change in non-cash working capital (∆WC), the change 
in net non-current operating assets (∆NCO) and the change in net financial assets (∆FIN): 
 
Accruals = ∆WC + ∆NCO + ∆FIN 
(9) 
∆WC represents the change in current operating assets, net of cash and short-term 
investments, less the change in current operating liabilities, net of short-term debt.  These 
accruals form the core of the traditional measure of accruals used by Sloan (1996).  We 
generally agree with Sloan’s original assessment that considerable subjectivity is 
involved in the measurement of this accrual category.  There are, however, significant 
differences between the underlying asset and liability components, so we conduct an 
extended accrual decomposition that further decomposes ∆WC into its underlying asset 
(∆COA) and liability (∆COL) components: 
 
∆WC = ∆COA - ∆COL 
(10) 
The major underlying assets driving ∆COA are trade accounts receivable and 
inventory (see Thomas and Zhang, 2002).  Both of these categories are measured with 
relatively low reliability.  Accounts receivable involves the subjective estimation of 
uncollectible accounts.  Moreover, accounts receivable is the most common accrual 
category that is used to manipulate earnings, primarily through techniques such as trade-
loading and premature revenue recognition (see Dechow, Sloan and Sweeney, 1996).  

 
15
The measurement of inventory allows for a number of different cost flow assumptions 
and involves subjective cost allocations.  For example, LIFO liquidations can artificially 
distort reported income, and the allocation of fixed costs to inventory can lead to 
distortions when production levels are unusually high or low.  Inventory accounting also 
calls for subjective write-down decisions based on the estimated market value of 
inventory. 
The major liability driving ∆COL is accounts payable.  In contrast to receivables 
and inventory, payables can generally be measured with a high degree of reliability.  
Accounts payable are financial obligations to suppliers that are recorded at their face 
value.  If a firm is to continue as a going concern, then it will typically have to pay its 
suppliers in full.  The only common source of subjectivity that arises for payables is in 
estimating discounts for prompt payment that may be offered by suppliers.  But since the 
amount of any discounts can typically be verified with the suppliers, there is relatively 
little room for error. 
Our second major category of accruals is non-current operating accruals, ∆NCO.  
This category is measured as the change in non-current assets, net of long-term non-
equity investments and advances, less the change in non-current liabilities, net of long-
term debt.  It contains accruals that have generally been ignored in previous research.  
Nevertheless, as we will argue below, this category contains subjective and unreliable 
accruals.  As with the working capital accruals, we further decompose ∆NCO into its 
underlying asset (∆ΝCOA) and liability (∆NCOL) components: 
 
∆NCO = ∆ΝCOA - ∆ΝCOL 
(11) 

 
16
The major underlying components of ∆ΝCOA are property, plant and equipment 
(PP&E) and intangibles.  Considerable uncertainty is involved in the estimation of these 
accruals.  First, there is considerable subjectivity involved in the initial decision of which 
costs to capitalize for both PP&E and recognizable internally generated intangibles (such 
as capitalized software development costs).  For example, the well-publicized accounting 
scandal at WorldCom involved billions of dollars of operating costs that were 
aggressively capitalized as PP&E.  Second, there is considerable subjectivity involved in 
selecting an amortization schedule for both PP&E and intangibles.  The 
depreciation/amortization method, the useful life and the salvage value are all subjective 
decisions that impact this accrual category.  Third, both PP&E and intangibles are subject 
to periodic write-downs when they are determined to have been impaired.  The estimation 
of the amount of these impairments involves great subjectivity.  For example, AOL Time 
Warner wrote off over $50 billion in a single quarter in relation to goodwill acquired in 
the merger of AOL and Time Warner.  Because such write-downs are typically made in 
large discrete amounts, they inevitably introduce periodic distortions into earnings. 
∆ΝCOL, the liability component of ∆ΝCO, is driven by a wide variety of 
different liabilities.  Examples include long-term payables, deferred taxes and 
postretirement benefits.  Some of these liabilities, such as long-term payables, can be 
measured with a high degree of reliability.  Others, such as postretirement benefits, 
involve many subjective estimates and so are measured with a low degree of reliability.  
The mix of different liabilities in this category makes it difficult to assign an 
unambiguous reliability ranking.  We rate the reliability of this category as medium, 
reflecting the range of different liabilities with varying degrees of reliability. 

 
17
Our third and final major category of accruals is the change in net financial assets, 
∆FIN.  ∆FIN is measured as the change in short-term investments and long-term 
investments less the change in short-term debt, long-term debt and preferred stock.  
Financial accruals have also been ignored in past accruals research.  However, as we will 
argue below, these accruals can generally be measured with a high degree of reliability, 
and in this respect are similar to cash.  In fact, some of these accruals are actually referred 
to as ‘cash equivalents’ to reflect their close correspondence with cash.  There are some 
subtle differences between the various financial assets and liabilities, and to highlight 
these differences, we further decompose ∆FIN into its underlying short-term investment 
(∆STI), long-term investment (∆LTI) and financial liability (∆FINL) components: 
 
∆FIN = ∆STI + ∆LTI - ∆FINL 
(12) 
Short-term investments and financial liabilities can both be measured with a high 
degree of reliability.  Short-term investments are comprised of securities with readily 
observable market values that are expected to be converted into cash within a year.  
Financial liabilities include debt, capitalized lease obligations and preferred stock, most 
of which are financial obligations that are valued at the present value of the future cash 
obligations owed by the firm, with the discount rate fixed at the issue date.  Firms are not 
permitted to book an allowance for the anticipated non-payment of their own financial 
obligations, so there is relatively little subjectivity involved in the measurement of these 
liabilities.  We therefore expect the reliability of accruals related to short-term 
investments and financial liabilities to be relatively high.  Reliability is, however, more of 
an issue for long-term investments.  The long-term investments category incorporates a 
variety of financial assets including long-term receivables and long-term investments in 

 
18
marketable securities.  Long-term receivables have at least as much potential for 
measurement error as short-term receivables and have been at the heart of some of the 
most celebrated cases of earnings manipulation.10  On the other hand, most long-term 
investments in liquid marketable securities can be measured with a high degree of 
reliability.  To reflect the mix of low and high reliability accruals included in ∆LTI, we 
assign it an overall reliability rating of medium.11 
Table 2 lists reliability assessments for both the initial and the extended balance 
sheet decompositions.  The reliability assessments for the initial decomposition represent 
a synthesis of the reliability assessments for the accrual categories from the extended 
decomposition.  ∆WC is assigned a reliability rating of medium, because it combines the 
low reliability accruals in ∆COA with the high reliability accruals in ∆COL.  ∆NCO 
receives a low/medium reliability rating, as it combines the low reliability accruals in 
∆ΝCOA with the medium reliability accruals in ∆COL.  Finally, ∆FIN receives a high 
reliability rating, because it represents the combination of two high reliability categories 
with a medium reliability category.  Our assessment of the relative reliabilities of the 
accrual categories is crude and subjective.  Nevertheless, we have identified some clear 
differences in the relative reliabilities of the measurements in the different accrual 
categories that generate testable empirical predictions.  We predict that accruals in the 
high reliability categories will have persistence coefficients similar to cash flows, while 
                                                          
10 In a well-publicized accounting scandal, Boston Chicken reported steadily growing earnings by 
overstating its long-term notes receivable in the years from 1994 to 1996. 
11 Ideally, we would like to decompose long-term investments further to distinguish between items such as 
long-term receivables and investments in marketable securities. Unfortunately, Compustat groups these 
items together in annual data item #32 and does not provide a finer decomposition. 

 
19
accruals in the medium and low reliability categories will have progressively lower 
persistence coefficients. 
 
3. 
Data 
Our empirical tests employ data from two sources.  Financial statement data are 
obtained from the Compustat annual database and stock return data are obtained from the 
CRSP daily stock returns files.  Our sample period covers all firm-years with available 
data on Compustat and CRSP for the period 1962-2001.  We exclude all firm-year 
observations with SIC codes in the range 6000-6999 (financial companies) because the 
demarcation between operating and financing activities is not clear in these firms.  We 
eliminate firm-year observations with insufficient data on Compustat to compute the 
primary financial statement variables used in our tests.12  These criteria yield a final 
sample size with non-missing financial statement and returns data of 108,617 firm-year 
observations. 
 
As discussed in section 2.3, our measure of total accruals, TACC, is defined as 
follows: TACC = ∆WC+ ∆NCO + ∆FIN where: 
(i) 
∆WC, the change in net working capital is defined as WCt - WCt-1.  WC is 
calculated as Current Operating Assets (COA) - Current Operating Liabilities 
(COL), and COA = Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Cash and Short 
Term Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #1), and COL=Current Liabilities 
(Compustat Item #5) - Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34). 
 
                                                          
12 Specifically, we require availability of Compustat data items 1, 4, 5, 6, 12 and 181 in both the current and 
previous year and data item 178 in the current year in order to keep a firm-year in the sample.  If data items 
9, 32, 34, 130 or 193 are missing, we set them equal to zero rather than eliminating the observation.  Each 
of the latter data items represent a balance sheet item that may not be relevant for many companies (e.g., 
preferred stock), so we set them to zero rather than needlessly discarding observations.  All results are 
qualitatively similar if we instead estimate each regression using only observations with all data available 
for that particular regression. 

 
20
(ii) 
∆NCO, the change in net non-current operating assets is defined as NCOt - 
NCOt-1. NCO is calculated as Non-Current Operating Assets (NCOA) - Non-
Current Operating Liabilities (NCOL), and NCOA = Total Assets (Compustat 
item #6) - Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Investments and Advances 
(Compustat Item #32), and NCOL = Total Liabilities (Compustat Item #181) - 
Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) – Long-Term Debt (Compustat Item 
#9). 
 
(iii) 
∆FIN, the change in net financial assets is defined as FINt - FINt-1 and FIN = 
Financial Assets (FINA) - Financial Liabilities (FINL).  FINA = Short Term 
Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #193) + Long Term Investments (LTI) 
(Compustat Item #32), and FINL= Long Term Debt (Compustat Item #9) + 
Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34) + Preferred Stock 
(Compustat Item #130). 
 
As in previous research, we deflate each of these components of earnings by average total 
assets.13  For our analysis of the persistence of the various components of earnings, we 
use return on assets (ROA).  ROA is calculated as operating income after depreciation 
(Compustat Item #178) deflated by average total assets.14  In our regression analyses, 
each component of earnings is winsorized at +1 and –1 in order to eliminate the influence 
of extreme outliers.15 
 
Our extended balance sheet decomposition further decomposes each of the three 
accrual components defined above into their respective asset and liability components.  
∆WC is decomposed into its current operating asset (∆COA) and current operating 
liability (∆COL) components, as defined above.  ∆NCO is decomposed into its 
noncurrent operating asset (∆NCOA) and noncurrent operating liability (∆NCOL) 
                                                          
13 Barth and Kallapur (1996) show that deflation can introduce biases into regression coefficients when the 
deflator measures the true underlying scale variable with error.  Such biases may be present in our analysis.  
However, we have no reason to believe that any such biases would differentially affect the cash flow and 
accrual components of earnings.  
14 Following Sloan (1996), we use a measure of income from continuing operations in our analysis of 
earnings persistence as it is unaffected by explicitly identified non-recurring components of net income.  
This increases the overall power of our persistence regressions.  However, inferences regarding the relative 
persistence of the different components of earnings are qualitatively similar if we instead use bottom line 
net income. 

 
21
components, as defined above.  Finally, ∆FIN is decomposed into its respective short-
term investment (∆STI), long-term investment (∆LTI) and liability (∆FINL) components, 
as defined above.  The balance sheet items and their associated accrual categorizations 
are summarized in table 1. 
Our stock return tests use data from the CRSP daily files.  Stock returns are 
measured using compounded buy-hold size-adjusted returns, inclusive of dividends and 
other distributions.  The size-adjusted return is calculated by deducting the value-
weighted average return for all firms in the same size-matched decile, where size is 
measured as the market capitalization at the beginning of the return cumulation period.  
Returns are calculated for a twelve-month period beginning four months after the end of 
the fiscal year.16  For firms that are delisted during our future return window, we 
calculate the remaining return by first applying CRSP’s delisting return and then 
reinvesting any remaining proceeds in the CRSP value-weighted market index.17  This 
mitigates concerns with potential survivorship biases. 
A potential shortcoming of our accrual measurement procedures is that they use 
balance sheet data.  Hribar and Collins (2002) point out that the use of balance sheet data 
can introduce errors into the measurement of accruals, particularly in the presence of 
mergers and acquisitions.  Indeed, the empirical distributions of our accrual variables 
contained a small number of extreme outliers, and inspection of some these outliers 
                                                                                                                                                                             
15 Inferences regarding the relative persistence and pricing of the different components of earnings are 
qualitatively similar without winsorization.  The winsorized results, however, have lower standard errors. 
16 This is standard in the literature, as firms generally file Form 10-K’s within four months after the end of 
the fiscal year (see Alford et al. 1994). 
17 Firms that are delisted for poor performance (delisting codes 500 and 520-584) frequently have missing 
delisting returns (see Shumway 1997).  We control for this potential bias by applying delisting returns of –
100% in such cases.  Our results are qualitatively similar if we make no such adjustment. 

 
22
indicates that they are attributable to measurement issues associated with the use of the 
balance sheet approach. 
We conduct three procedures to confirm the robustness of our results with respect 
to potential measurement issues introduced by the balance sheet approach.  First, we 
delete (as opposed to winsorize) firm-year observations from our regression analysis 
when any one of the regression variables exceeds one in absolute value.  We do this in an 
effort to remove outliers that may be attributable to measurement issues.  Our results are 
similar for this reduced sample.  Second, we confirm the robustness of our total accrual 
results using a measure of total accruals derived from data in the statement of cash flows 
rather than data from the balance sheet.  Note in this respect that cash flow data is only 
available from 1988, and while we can compute total accruals using statement of cash 
flow data, we cannot compute many of our underlying accrual components without using 
balance sheet data.  This alternative measure of accruals is computed as the difference 
between income before extraordinary items (Compustat item 123) less total operating, 
investing and financing cash flows (items 308, 311 and 313) plus sales of common stock 
(item 108) less stock repurchases and dividends (items 115 and 127).  Results using this 
cash flow-based measure of total accruals are qualitatively similar to the results obtained 
using our balance sheet measure of total accruals.  Third, we also conducted our analyses 
after removing firms experiencing an increase in reported goodwill.  This procedure is 
expected to eliminate some observations involving significant mergers and acquisitions.18  
Our results are again qualitatively similar for this sample. 
 
                                                          
18 Not all observations with mergers and acquisitions will be eliminated.  Mergers and acquisitions 
accounted for using the pooling of interest method or involving the creation of new goodwill that is less 
than or equal to the amortization of goodwill for the period will not be eliminated. 

 
23
4. 
Results 
We present our results in four sections.  Section 4.1 begins with descriptive 
statistics for our accrual decompositions.  Section 4.2 presents tests of our predictions 
concerning the relative magnitudes of the persistence coefficients on the accrual 
components of earnings.  Section 4.3 provides additional analysis of certain issues 
uncovered in section 4.2.  Finally, section 4.4 presents our stock return tests, providing 
evidence on the extent to which investors appear to understand the relative magnitudes of 
the persistence coefficients. 
 
4.1 
Descriptive Statistics 
We begin by presenting univariate statistics and pair-wise correlations for our key 
variables.  We organize these descriptive statistics around the accrual decompositions that 
we use to motivate our empirical analysis.  Panel A of table 3 contains univariate 
statistics for the initial accrual decomposition.  The mean value of TACC is 0.052, 
indicating the average firm’s accruals are just over 5% of total assets.  Note that the 
positive mean value for accruals documented here differs from the negative mean value 
for accruals documented by Sloan (1996).  The key reason for this difference is that 
Sloan’s definition of accruals includes the reversal of certain non-current operating asset 
accruals (through the subtraction of depreciation and amortization expense), but does not 
include the origination of these accruals.  Inspection of the working capital (∆WC), net 
non-current operating asset (∆NCO) and financing (∆FIN) accruals indicates that ∆WC 
and ∆NCO both have positive means, while ∆FIN has a negative mean.  These means 
indicate that the average firm is growing its net operating assets and reducing its net 

 
24
financial assets (e.g., increasing debt) to finance this growth.  Focusing on the standard 
deviations of the accrual components, we see that ∆WC has the lowest standard deviation 
(0.108), followed by ∆NCO (0.151) and ∆FIN (0.181).  These standard deviations 
suggest that ∆NCO and ∆FIN, the new accrual components examined in this paper, 
account for a relatively large proportion of the variation in total accruals. 
Panel B of table 3 reports the pair-wise correlations for the initial accrual 
decomposition.  The correlations between the accrual components reveal important 
regularities.  ∆WC and ∆NCO are positively correlated, indicating that firms tend to grow 
their current and non-current operating activities in tandem.  In contrast, both ∆WC and 
∆NCO are very strongly negatively correlated with ∆FIN.  The negative correlations 
indicate that firms tend to finance growth in their net operating assets by using up 
financial assets and/or generating financial liabilities.  What is clear from these 
descriptive statistics is that the financing accruals (∆FIN) behave very differently from 
the operating accruals (∆WC and ∆NCO). 
Table 4 provides descriptive statistics for the extended accrual decomposition.  
Recall that the major extension in this decomposition involves separating the accrual 
components into their asset and liability subcomponents.  The standard deviations in 
panel A indicate that most of the variation in ∆WC is attributable to ∆COA, most of the 
variation in ∆NCO is attributable to ∆NCOA and most of the variation in ∆FIN is 
attributable to ∆FINL.  Thus, variation in operating accruals tends to be dominated by the 
assets, while variation in financing accruals tends to be dominated by the liabilities. 
The correlations in panel B of table 4 shed more light on the relation between 
operating assets and financing liabilities.  In interpreting these accruals, it is important to 

 
25
remember that the liability component of accruals is subtracted from the asset component 
of accruals to arrive at net accruals.  Thus, a positive correlation between an asset and a 
liability category indicates that they tend to have offsetting effects on total accruals.  Both 
∆COA and ∆NCOA are strongly positively correlated with ∆FINL, indicating that 
financing liabilities provide an important source of funding for growth in operating 
assets.  ∆COA and ∆NCOA are also strongly positively correlated with ∆COL and 
∆ΝCOL, indicating that operating liabilities provide an additional source of funding for 
growth in operating assets.  Another noteworthy set of correlations is that both ∆COL and 
∆NCOL are positively correlated with TACC.  The direct effect of increases in ∆COL 
and ∆NCOL is to reduce TACC, so one might have expected a negative correlation 
between these two liability components and TACC.  There is, however, a straightforward 
explanation for the observed positive correlations.  As mentioned above, the asset and 
liability components of operating accruals are strongly positively correlated.  For 
example, the Pearson (Spearman) correlation between ∆COA and ∆COL is 0.583 (0.560).  
Firms that are growing their operations tend to increase both their operating assets and 
their operating liabilities.  However, firms typically require positive working capital, so 
the increase in operating assets tends to be larger than the increase in operating liabilities.  
Firm growth therefore results in an indirect positive relation between ∆COL and TACC.  
We will see in the next section that the strong correlations between the operating asset 
and operating liability components of accruals complicate the interpretation of our 
multivariate regression results. 

 
26
4.2 
Earnings Persistence Results 
Table 5 presents our analysis of the persistence of the cash flow and accrual 
components of earnings.  Section 2.1 generates two key predictions concerning these 
persistence coefficients.  First, the accrual component of earnings is expected to be less 
persistent than the cash flow component of earnings.  The cash component of earnings 
performance is simply the difference between earnings performance itself and the accrual 
component of earnings performance.  Accordingly, our first prediction can be tested 
through the following regression: 
 
ROAt+1 = γ0 + γ1(ROAt - TACCt) + γ2TACCt + υt+1 
(13) 
where γ1 measures the persistence of cash flows and γ2 measures the persistence of 
accruals, and our first prediction is (γ2-γ1)<0.  In order to focus on the relative persistence 
of accruals, we estimate a slightly modified version of (13) in which the cash flow 
component of earnings performance is replaced by earnings performance itself: 
 
ROAt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1ROAt + ρ2TACCt + υt+1 
(14) 
Note that this regression equation can be rewritten in terms of the persistence parameters 
in equation (13) as: 
 
ROAt+1 = γ0 + γ1(ROAt) + (γ2 - γ1)TACCt + υt+1 
(15) 
So ρ1=γ1 and ρ2=(γ2-γ1).  The advantage of estimating this modified version is that ρ2 
provides a direct estimate of (γ2-γ1), so our first prediction is simply that ρ2<0. 
Our second prediction is that (γ2-γ1) will be more negative for less reliable 
accruals.  Recall that table 2 summarizes our assessments of the reliability of the various 
accrual categories.  In order to test our second prediction, we must examine each of the 
accrual categories individually.  We do this through a combination of univariate and 

 
27
multivariate regression analyses.  Our univariate regression analysis follows from 
equation (14).  For example, to examine the persistence of the working capital component 
of accruals, we estimate the following regression: 
 
ROAt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1ROAt + ρ2∆WCt + υt+1 
(16) 
The analog to equations (13) and (15) are now: 
 
ROAt+1 = γ0 + γ1(ROAt - ∆WCt) + γ2∆WCt + υt+1 
(17) 
 
ROAt+1 = γ0 + γ1(ROAt) + (γ2 - γ1) ∆WCt + υt+1 
(18) 
So ρ1 measures the persistence of earnings exclusive of the working capital component of 
accruals, and ρ2 measures the difference between the persistence of the working capital 
component of accruals and the persistence of earnings exclusive of the working capital 
component of accruals.  Note that the interpretation of the coefficients is subtly different 
than in equation (13), because ρ1 no longer represents the persistence of cash flows, but 
instead represents the persistence of earnings exclusive of the particular accrual 
component that is included in the regression (∆WC in this case).  Since this accrual 
component is a subset of total accruals, ρ1 now represents the combined persistence of 
cash flows and all of the other accrual components.  Our second prediction is that ρ2 is 
predicted to be more negative for less reliable accruals.  It is also possible that ρ2 may be 
positive for more reliable accruals, the reason being that ρ1 represents the combined 
persistence of cash flows and the other (potentially less reliable) accruals.19  The presence 
of the less reliable accruals may drive γ1<γ2, in which case ρ2>0.  Nevertheless, ρ2 is 
always predicted to be lower for less reliable accruals. 
                                                          
19 Recall from footnote 9 that when both components of earnings are measured with error, the downward 
bias in the estimated coefficients tends to be greatest for the variable that is measured with the most error. 
 

 
28
The univariate regressions have some shortcomings.  First, they do not allow for 
formal statistical tests of differences in the ρ2 estimates across accrual components.  
Second, as described above, they do not allow us to directly benchmark the persistence of 
the accrual components relative to cash flows.  To address these shortcomings, we also 
estimate a multivariate version of equation (16) that simultaneously includes all 
components of accruals: 
 
ROAt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1ROAt + ρ2∆WCt + ρ3∆NCOt + ρ4∆FINt + υt+1 
(19) 
The analog to equations (17) and (18) are now: 
 
ROAt+1 = γ0+γ1(ROAt-∆WCt-∆NCOt-∆FINt)+γ2∆WCt+γ3∆NCOt+γ4∆FINt+υt+1 (20) 
 
ROAt+1 = γ0 + γ1(ROAt) + (γ2-γ1)∆WCt + (γ3-γ1)∆NCO t + (γ4-γ1)∆FIN t + υt+1 (21) 
So ρ1 now measures the persistence of the cash flow component of earnings, while ρ2, ρ3 
and ρ4 each measure the persistence of their respective accrual component relative to the 
cash flow component.  F-tests allow for formal statistical tests of the equality of the 
coefficients across the accrual components.  The key shortcoming of this multivariate 
regression is that the errors-in-variables model developed in section 2.1 only applies to 
the case of two variables.  We have now decomposed accruals into multiple variables, all 
of which are potentially measured with error.  In the case of multiple variables measured 
with error, the magnitude of the resulting biases will also depend on the correlations 
between these variables (see Klepper and Leamer, 1984).  Recall from panel B of table 4 
that several of the accrual components are highly correlated.  Thus, care must be taken in 
interpreting the coefficients of these variables in the multivariate specification. 
We conduct all of our regression analyses following the Fama and MacBeth 
(1973) procedure of estimating annual cross-sectional regressions and reporting the time-

 
29
series averages of the resulting regression coefficients.  Panel A of table 5 reports 
regression results for TACC, the total accrual component of earnings.  The first 
regression model is a simple earnings autoregression and provides a benchmark for the 
subsequent regressions.  Consistent with Sloan (1996), earnings is slowly mean reverting 
with a persistence coefficient of about 0.77.  The second regression estimates the model 
in equation (14).  Consistent with our first prediction, ρ2 is negative (-0.082) and 
statistically significant (t=-16.13), indicating that the accrual component of earnings is 
less persistent than the cash flow component of earnings.  This result corroborates 
Sloan’s original result using our comprehensive definition of accruals.20 
Panel B of table 5 reports results of estimating equation (16) for each of the 
components of our initial accrual decomposition.  Recall from table 2 that ∆WC and 
∆NCO are assessed to have medium or low reliability and so are predicted to have 
relatively low persistence coefficients, while ∆FIN is assessed to have high reliability and 
hence a relatively high persistence coefficient.  The coefficients in each of the univariate 
regressions are consistent with these predictions.  The coefficient on ∆WC is negative 
and highly statistically significant (-0.116 with a t-statistic of –15.05), the coefficient on 
∆NCO is also negative and statistically significant (-0.047 with a t-statistic of –12.39) 
and the coefficient on ∆FIN is close to zero (0.015 with a t-statistic of 2.86). 
                                                          
20 Fairfield Whisenant and Yohn (2003b) show that the lower persistence of accruals relative to cash flows 
is primarily attributable to growth in the investment base that is not matched by growth in income.  In other 
words, firms with high operating accruals are firms that are growing their operating investments, but earn a 
lower average return on their increased operating investments, leading to lower persistence in earnings 
performance.  To investigate the importance of this issue for our results, we replicated all of the results in 
table 5 using the Fairfield, Whisenant and Yohn approach of measuring our dependent variable as next 
year’s income deflated by last year’s average total assets.  Our results are surprisingly robust with respect 
to this procedure.  For example, our total accruals variable continues to have a significantly negative 
coefficient and the operating asset accruals variables continue to have the most negative coefficients. 

 
30
The final row of panel B of table 5 reports results for the multivariate 
specification in equation (19).  Consistent with our predictions, the multivariate 
regression analysis basically maintains the same relative ranking of accrual persistence 
coefficients as the univariate regressions.  Untabulated F-tests confirm that the 
coefficients on ∆WC and ∆NCO are significantly different from the coefficient on ∆FIN.  
The multivariate regressions, however, differ from the univariate regressions in a couple 
of significant respects.  First, the coefficients on all of the accrual components are 
somewhat lower than in the univariate specifications.  Second, the coefficient on ∆FIN is 
negative and statistically significant.  As described earlier, there is a natural explanation 
for these differences.  In the univariate regressions, the omitted accrual components are 
implicitly grouped with cash flows and the lower persistence of these accrual components 
causes ρ1 to be lower.  The multivariate specification allows ρ1 to represent the 
coefficient on the pure cash flow component of earnings, causing ρ1 to increase and the 
coefficients on each of the less reliable accrual components to correspondingly decrease. 
Panel C of table 5 presents results for the extended accrual decomposition.  Recall 
from table 2 that the asset components of the operating accruals are assessed to be the 
least reliable, so we predict that the coefficients on the operating asset components of 
accruals will be the most negative.  The results from the univariate regressions confirm 
these predictions.  The persistence coefficients on ∆COA and ∆ΝCOA are the two most 
negative and the most statistically significant coefficients.  However, inconsistent with 
our assessment that ∆COL is more reliable than ∆ΝCOL, we find that ∆COL has the 
more negative coefficient.  One possible explanation for this result is that the accruals in 
∆ΝCOL consist of accruals relating to deferred taxes and retirement obligations that can 

 
31
take many periods to reverse.  This  possibility is examined in more detail in the next 
subsection. 
Our extended decomposition of financing accruals is a three-way decomposition 
into short-term investing accruals (∆STI), long-term investing accruals (∆LTI) and 
financial liability accruals (∆FINL).  Recall from table 2 that we assess both ∆STI and 
∆FINL to be of high reliability and hence have similar persistence to cash flows.  In 
contrast, we assess ∆LTI to have only medium reliability and hence have a significantly 
lower coefficient than cash flows.  The results are generally consistent with these 
predictions.  The coefficient on ∆LTI is significantly negative (-0.045, t=-4.11) and the 
lowest of the coefficients on the three financing components.  In contrast, the coefficient 
on ∆STI is much closer to zero (0.036, t=1.05), while the coefficient on ∆FINL is 
significantly positive (0.023, t=3.83).  The significantly positive coefficient on ∆FINL 
may seem somewhat surprising, but remember that in the univariate specification, ρ1 
represents the combined persistence of all components of earnings other than the included 
accrual component.  These components include the relatively unreliable operating asset 
accruals, which will cause ρ1 to be lower and the coefficient on ∆FINL to be higher. 
The final regression in panel C of table 5 is the multivariate regression for the 
extended accrual decomposition.  Since this regression includes all accrual components, 
ρ1 represents the persistence of the pure cash flow component of earnings.  Consequently, 
the coefficient of 0.801 is higher than in any of the preceding univariate regressions.  The 
coefficients in the multivariate regression confirm several of our key predictions.  The 
coefficients on ∆COA, ∆NCOA and ∆LTI continue to be significantly negative, 
consistent with their low to medium reliability assessments.  Also, the highest coefficient 

 
32
is reported on ∆STI, an accrual component we assess to have high reliability.  However, 
both ∆COL, ∆NCOL have relatively high persistence coefficients in the univariate 
regressions, but have much lower persistence coefficients in the multivariate regression.  
We provide an explanation for the discrepancy in these persistence coefficients between 
the univariate and multivariate regressions in the next subsection. 
4.3 
Additional Tests on Earnings Persistence 
The earnings persistence results in subsection 4.2 raise two issues that are worthy 
of additional examination.  First, it is possible that the persistence coefficients on non-
current operating accruals are sensitive to the horizon over which earnings persistence is 
measured.  Second, it appears that there are important interactions between operating 
asset and operating liability accruals that cause dramatic shifts in the persistence 
coefficients on the operating liability accruals between the univariate and multivariate 
regression specifications.  This subsection addresses each of these issues in turn. 
The regressions in table 5 examine earnings persistence over consecutive annual 
intervals.  It is possible that some accrual errors take several years to reverse, particularly 
in the case of accruals relating to non-current assets and liabilities.  To investigate the 
sensitivity of the results with respect to longer-term persistence, table 6 replicates the 
regression analysis in table 5 measuring the dependent variable as earnings performance 
averaged from 2 through 5 years ahead (denoted FROA).  As expected, the use of long-
term earnings leads to a reduction in the persistence coefficients on ROA.  There is 
modest evidence that the persistence coefficients on the long-term accruals fall relative to 
the current accruals.  For example, in the univariate regressions in panel C, the coefficient 
on ∆ΝCOL switches from being larger than the coefficient on ∆COL in table 5 to being 

 
33
smaller than the coefficient on ∆COL in table 6.  This is consistent with lower reliability 
of ∆ΝCOL manifesting itself over longer horizons due to the long-term nature of the 
underlying accruals. 
The results in tables 5 and 6 provide consistent evidence concerning the lower 
earnings persistence associated with operating asset accruals.  The results for operating 
liability accruals, however, are mixed.  In particular, recall from panel C of table 5 that 
both ∆COL and ∆NCOL have relatively high persistence coefficients in the univariate 
regressions, but relatively low persistence coefficients in the multivariate regressions.  
From a statistical perspective, these results arise because of the strong correlations 
between the operating liability accruals and the other accrual components.  In particular, 
panel B of table 4 indicates that both ∆COL and ∆NCOL are highly positively correlated 
with both ∆COA and ∆NCOA.  Table 7 conducts additional tests that provide insights 
into the economic rationale behind these statistics. 
The reason that operating liability accruals tend to be positively correlated with 
operating assets accruals is straightforward.  As a business grows, its operating asset and 
liability accounts tend to grow in tandem.  For example, a business that adds new 
productive capacity will typically have increases in both inventories and accounts 
payable, as it is buys more inputs and produces more outputs.  For this reason, operating 
liability accruals will tend to proxy for operating asset accruals (and vice versa) in the 
univariate regressions.  In contrast, the multivariate regressions control for variation in 
operating asset accruals.  This means that the persistence coefficients on operating 
liability accruals represent the marginal effect of financing operating assets using 
operating liabilities as opposed to other sources of financing.  In particular, the 

 
34
significantly negative coefficients on the operating liability accruals tell us that growth in 
operating assets that is financed using operating liabilities is associated with relatively 
higher earnings persistence.21  The results in panel A of table 7 provide direct evidence in 
support of this explanation. 
Panel A of table 7 examines the persistence of operating asset accruals according 
to the manner in which the accruals are financed. Using the balance sheet identity and our 
earlier terminology, we can decompose operating asset accruals (∆OA) into its financing 
sources as follows: 
 
∆OA = ∆OL + ∆FINL + ∆EQUITY - ∆FA 
(22) 
 
where ∆OA is the change in operating assets (∆COA+∆NCOA), ∆OL is the change in 
operating liabilities (∆COL+∆NCOL), ∆FINL is the change in debt (including preferred 
stock), ∆EQUITY is the change in common equity and ∆FA is the change in financial 
assets (including cash).  The first regression in table 7 confirms our earlier results that 
operating asset accruals are associated with lower earnings persistence.  The next 
regression indicates that the lower earnings persistence is entirely attributable to 
operating asset accruals that are financed by debt, financial assets or equity.  When 
operating liabilities are used to finance increases in operating assets, earnings persistence 
is actually higher, as indicated by the significantly positive coefficient on ∆OL.  In 
contrast, when debt, equity or financial assets are used to finance increases in operating 
assets, persistence is lower, as indicated by the significantly negative coefficients on 
these sources of financing.  Nissim and Penman (2003) provide related evidence.  They 
                                                          
21 Note that changes in operating liabilities enter the regressions with a negative sign (because increases in 
operating liabilities represent decreases in accruals).  The significantly negative coefficients on changes in 
operating liabilities in the multivariate regressions therefore indicate that larger increases in operating 
liabilities lead to higher earnings persistence. 

 
35
find that leverage arising from operating liabilities is associated with higher future 
profitability than leverage arising from debt. 
The economic intuition behind these results can be illustrated via example.  
Consider two companies, each reporting high operating asset accruals in the form of large 
increases in inventory.  In one company, the inventory increase results from slowing 
sales, and the company is forced to issue new debt in order to finance the inventory glut 
(because inventory trade payables become due before the inventory is sold).  In the other 
company, the increase represents new inventory that is being acquired in response to a 
surge in demand, and the company is able to finance the increase using trade credit 
(because the inventory is being sold before the associated trade payable becomes due).  
The former company is experiencing problems that are likely to result in reductions in 
future profitability, while the latter company is experiencing healthy growth that is likely 
to lead to increases in future profitability.  A second and complementary economic force 
that is also likely to be at work is that trade creditors are in a unique position to 
continuously verify the quality of the operating assets that are available to satisfy their 
claims.  Unlike other sources of financing, trade credit tends to be short term in nature 
and granted by suppliers who have unique insights into the financial health of the 
business operations.  As a result, operating asset accruals that are financed by operating 
liabilities are expected to be more persistent than operating asset accruals that are 
financed by debt or equity. 
Panel B of table 7 provides additional evidence supporting the above 
interpretation of the interaction between operating assets and operating liabilities.  To 
construct this table, we conduct independent quintile sorts of our sample on ∆OA (the 

 
36
sum of ∆COA and ∆NCOA) and ∆OL (the sum of ∆COL and ∆NCOL).  The numbers in 
parentheses represent the number of observations in each cell.  The positive correlation 
between ∆OA and ∆OL leads the observations to be concentrated down the main 
diagonal.  There are, however, many observations in the other cells, providing us with the 
opportunity to examine how ∆OA and ∆OL interact to inform about earnings persistence. 
The statistic reported in each cell of panel B of table 7 is the mean change in next 
period’s earnings performance (∆ROAt+1) for observations in that cell.  Scanning down 
each column reveals a negative association between future earnings changes and ∆OA, 
consistent with the lower persistence and reliability of operating asset accruals.  But we 
also see that the maximum spread in future profitability is observed between the ‘low 
∆OA, high ∆OL’ cell and the ‘high ∆OA, low ∆OL’ cell.  The ‘low ∆OA, high ∆OL’ cell 
has a mean future earnings change of 0.065, compared to an average change of 0.018 for 
all low ∆OA cells.  Similarly, the ‘high ∆OA,  low ∆OL’ cell has a future earnings 
change of -0.040 compared to an average change of -0.029 for all high ∆OA cells.  
Focusing on cells where ∆OA and ∆OL move in opposite directions maximizes the 
spread in future earnings changes.22  Firms where ∆OA is rising and ∆OL is falling 
subsequently do most poorly, while firms where ∆OA is falling and ∆OL is rising 
subsequently do the best.  To summarize, ∆OL provides important information about the 
persistence of ∆OA, because higher operating liability accruals signal more reliable 
operating asset accruals. 
                                                          
22 We conducted t-tests of differences in means between each possible combination of the 4 corner cells in 
the 5x5 ∆OA/∆OL matrix, confirming that they are all significantly different from each other at 
conventional levels.  For example, in the high ∆OA row the difference between low ∆OL (-0.040) and high 
∆OL (-0.026) is statistically significant at the 5% level (two-tailed test). 

 
37
4.4 
Stock Return Results 
In this section, we investigate whether stock prices act as if investors anticipate 
the implications of accrual reliability for earnings persistence.  If investors understand the 
implications of accrual reliability for earnings persistence, then there should be no 
relation between accruals and future abnormal stock returns.  However, if investors 
naïvely fail to anticipate the lower persistence of the less reliable accrual components of 
earnings, there will be a negative relation between these accrual components and future 
abnormal stock returns.  For example, a firm with relatively high accruals this period is 
expected to have relatively low earnings performance next period, but if investors naïvely 
ignore the high accruals, they will be surprised by next period’s low earnings 
performance, resulting in negative abnormal returns in the next period.  Thus, the naïve 
investor hypothesis predicts a negative relation between accruals and future stock returns, 
with the relation being stronger for less reliable accruals that result in lower earnings 
persistence. 
Our stock return tests are presented in table 8.  This table replicates the analysis in 
table 5 after replacing the dependent variable with the next year’s annual size-adjusted 
buy-hold stock return (measured starting four months after the fiscal year end).  Panel A 
of table 8 reports the results of the basic regression of stock returns on earnings and the 
accrual component of earnings.  As in previous research, we obtain a negative and 
significant coefficient on accruals, which is consistent with the naïve investor hypothesis. 
Panel B reports regression results for the initial balance sheet decomposition.  
Consistent with the naïve investor hypothesis, the relative rankings of the coefficients on 
the accrual components of earnings line up closely with their counterparts in table 5.  The 

 
38
coefficients on ∆WC and ∆ΝCO are consistently the most negative and are highly 
statistically significant.   
Panel C of table 8 reports regression results for the extended accrual 
decomposition.  We again see a close correspondence between the relative rankings on 
the accrual coefficients with those reported in panel C of table 5.  Most importantly, the 
coefficients on ∆COA, ∆NCOA and ∆LTI are consistently the most negative and 
significant.  These are the accruals that we judge to be the least reliable and which also 
have the lowest persistence coefficients in table 5.  Overall, the results are consistent with 
the naïve investor hypothesis.  Future stock returns are negatively related to accruals, and 
the negative relation is stronger for less reliable accruals. 
The results for operating liability accruals in panel C of table 8 display similar 
properties to those from panel C of table 5.  In particular, the persistence coefficients on 
∆COL and ∆ΝCOL fall sharply from the univariate regressions to the multivariate 
regression.  Table 9 replicates the additional analysis of operating asset and liability 
accruals in table 7, but focuses on next year’s stock returns instead of next year’s 
earnings changes.  The stock return results in table 9 mirror the earnings results from 
table 7.  Panel A shows that the negative relation between operating asset accruals and 
future stock returns is not significant when these accruals are financed by operating 
liabilities.  The negative relation is driven by the other sources of financing.  Panel B 
shows that the predictable future stock returns are greatest when operating asset accruals 
and operating liability accruals move in opposite directions.  Firms in the ‘low ∆OA, high 
∆OL’ cell  have mean size adjusted returns of 10.2%.  Conversely, firms in the ‘high 

 
39
∆OA, low ∆OL’ cell have mean size adjusted returns of –9.4%.23  These results indicate 
that investors do not use information in operating liability accruals about the persistence 
operating asset accruals. 
Table 10 provides evidence on the economic significance of our results, using the 
common convention of reporting abnormal returns for ranked portfolios.  We rank 
observations annually on each accrual component and use the ranks to group observations 
into ten equal-sized portfolios (deciles).  We calculate size-adjusted annual returns for 
each decile, with the return cumulation period starting 4 months after fiscal year-end.  We 
also compute returns on a hedge portfolio consisting of a long position in the lowest 
accrual decile and an equal-sized short position in the highest accrual decile, to provide a 
summary measure of the economic magnitude of the mispricing for each accrual 
component. 
Panel A of table 10 reports the results for the initial accrual decomposition.  The 
hedge portfolio return for total accruals is 13.3%.  The initial accrual decomposition 
provides evidence on the source of these returns.  The ∆WC component has a hedge 
portfolio return of 12.8%.  This component of accruals differs slightly from the accrual 
definition used by Sloan (1996) in that it excludes depreciation.  The ∆NCO component 
of accruals has a hedge portfolio return of 16.5%.  This component of accruals is largely 
unexplored by previous research.  ∆NOA (the sum of ∆WC and ∆NCO) has the largest 
hedge portfolio return of 18.0%.  By combining current and non-current operating 
accruals, we obtain hedge portfolio returns that are larger than those obtained using each 
                                                          
23 We also conducted t-tests of differences in means for the 4 cells at the corners of this 5x5 ∆OA/∆OL 
matrix.  All differences are significant at conventional levels, with the exception of the difference between 
the ‘high ∆OA, low ∆OL’ cell (-0.094) and the ‘high ∆OA, high ∆OL’ cell (-0.075). 

 
40
component independently.  Finally, the hedge portfolio return for the ∆FIN component of 
accruals is -8.2%.  While operating accruals are negatively associated with future stock 
returns, financing accruals are positively associated with future stock returns.  This result 
is explained by the negative correlation between ∆FIN and the operating accruals, as 
reported in table 3 and discussed in section 4.1.  A sort on ∆FIN is essentially a noisy 
reverse sort on ∆NOA, because ∆FIN is a primary source of financing for ∆NOA. 
Panel B of table 10 reports the hedge portfolio returns for the extended 
decomposition of accruals.  The strongest mispricing is in the operating asset components 
of accruals, ∆COA and ∆NCOA, with hedge portfolio returns of 14.5% and 16.1% 
respectively.  Decomposition of ∆FIN into ∆STI, ∆LTI and ∆FINL shows that the source 
of negative hedge portfolio returns is ∆FINL, which is the financing component having 
the strongest correlation with operating accruals.  ∆LTI is associated with a positive 
hedge portfolio return of 5.2%, consistent with its lower persistence and reliability. 
Overall, the results in table 10 confirm that our more comprehensive measure of 
accruals is associated with even greater mispricing than has been documented in previous 
accrual research such as Sloan (1996).  Moreover, the mispricing is driven by the accrual 
components with the lowest reliability. 
 
5. 
Conclusion and Implications 
Our comprehensive examination of accrual reliability, earnings persistence and 
future stock returns generates several new insights.  First, we document important costs 
of recognizing less verifiable and hence less reliable information in the accounting 
system.  Less reliable accruals lead to lower earnings persistence and investors do not 

 
41
appear to fully anticipate this lower persistence, leading to significant security 
mispricing.  Second, we provide a comprehensive definition and categorization of 
accruals that incorporates many accruals that have been ignored by previous research.  
Our results indicate that some of the accrual categories that have been ignored by 
previous research have particularly low reliability.  Third, we show that the magnitude of 
the security mispricing related to accruals is significantly greater than originally 
documented by Sloan (1996).  For example, a simple decile sort on a combination of the 
least reliable accrual categories produces annual hedge portfolio returns of 18%. 
Our analysis has several implications for existing research.  First, it highlights the 
crucial trade-off between relevance and reliability in accrual accounting.  We show that 
less reliable accruals introduce costs in the form of lower earnings persistence and the 
associated mispricing.  Our findings provide a natural counterpoint to research calling for 
new categories of relevant but relatively unreliable information to be allowed under 
GAAP (e.g., Lev and Sougiannis, 1996).  In particular, our results support Watts (2003) 
argument that recent moves by the FASB to introduce even less verifiable information 
into GAAP may prove extremely costly.24  We reiterate Watts’ conclusion that the case 
for allowing less verifiable and hence less reliable categories of accruals must recognize 
the problems that verifiability and reliability evolved to address. 
The second key implication of our analysis is that accruals-based research should 
consider broader definitions of accruals than the definition originally proposed by Healy 
(1985).  Healy’s definition has become synonymous with accruals in the accounting 
literature.  Yet we show that his definition excludes several economically significant 

 
42
categories of accruals with low reliability.  Non-current operating asset accruals (e.g., 
capitalization of operating costs as long-term) are a good example.  Such accruals were at 
the heart of the well-known accounting debacle at WorldCom.  We recommend that 
researchers using accruals to measure earnings management consider broader measures 
of accruals in order to maximize the power of their tests.  Our analysis also highlights the 
differing degrees of reliability associated with different categories of accruals.  In this 
respect our analysis is still quite crude, and further refinements should lead to additional 
insights into accrual reliability and earnings persistence. 
Finally, our findings corroborate claims concerning the importance of 
distinguishing between earnings and ‘free cash flow’ in evaluating firm performance.25  
The standard textbook definition of free cash flow adjusts earnings by adding back 
depreciation and amortization and subtracting changes in working capital and capital 
expenditures.  As such, these adjustments are substantially similar to the operating 
accrual components that we develop in this paper.  Financing accruals are not typically 
backed out in arriving at free cash flow.  Thus, the accruals that we find to be the least 
reliable correspond closely to the adjustments that are made to earnings in arriving at free 
cash flow.  Free cash flow represents a combination of actual cash flows plus the 
relatively reliable financing accruals. 
                                                                                                                                                                             
24 The specific examples used by Watts are the FASB’s recent standards SFAS No. 141 and SFAS No. 142.  
These standards require managers to estimate the future cash flows associated with the firm’s operating 
assets and (under certain circumstances) recognize these estimates in the financial statements. 
25 For an example, see ‘Cash is King’, Chapter 5 of Copeland et al. (2000). 

 
43
REFERENCES 
 
Alford, A. W., J.J. Jones, and M. E. Zmijewski, 1994. Extensions and violations of the 
statutory SEC Form 10-K filing requirements.  Journal of Accounting & Economics 17, 
229-256. 
 
Barth, M. E., and S. Kallapur, 1996. The Effects of Cross-Sectional Scale Differences on 
Regression Results in Empirical Accounting Research.  Contemporary Accounting 
Research 13, 527-567. 
 
Copeland, T., T. Koller and J. Murrin. 2000. Valuation: Measuring and Managing the 
Value of Companies. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 3rd edition. 
 
Dechow, P. M., 1994.  Accounting Earnings and Cash Flows as Measures of Firm 
Performance: The Role of Accounting Accruals. Journal of Accounting and Economics 
18, 3-42. 
 
Dechow, P. M., S. P. Kothari and R. L. Watts, 1998.  The Relation Between Earnings and 
Cash Flows.  Journal of Accounting and Economics, 25, 133-168. 
 
Dechow, P. M., R. G. Sloan and A. Sweeney, 1996.  Causes and Consequences of 
Earnings Manipulation: An analysis of Firms Subject to Enforcement Actions by the 
SEC.  Contemporary Accounting Research 13, 1-36. 
 
Fairfield, P. M., J. S. Whisenant and T. L. Yohn, 2003a.  Accrued Earnings and Growth: 
Implications for Future Profitability and Market Mispricing.  Accounting Review 78, 
353-371. 
 
Fairfield, P. M., J. S. Whisenant and T. L. Yohn, 2003b.  The Differential Persistence of 
Accruals and Cash Flows for Future Operating Income versus Future Profitability.  
Review of Accounting Studies 8, 221-243.  
 
Fama, E. F., and J. D. Macbeth, 1973.  Risk, return and equilibrium – empirical tests.  
The Journal of Political Economy 81, 607-636. 
 
Griliches, Z., and V. Ringstad, 1971.  Economies of Scales and the Form of the 
Production Function.  North Holland. 
 
Healy, P., 1985.  The Effect of Bonus Schemes on Accounting Decisions.  Journal of 
Accounting and Economics 7, 85-107. 
 
Holthausen, R. W., and R. L. Watts, 2001.  The Relevance of the Value Relevance 
Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting.  Journal of Accounting and 
Economics, 31, 3-75. 
 
Hribar, P. and D. Collins, 2002.  Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for 

 
44
Empirical Research.  Journal of Accounting Research 40, 105-134. 
 
Klepper, S., and E. E. Leamer, 1984.  Consistent Sets of Estimates for Regressions With 
Errors in All Variables.  Econometrica 52, 163-183. 
 
Lev, B., and T. Sougiannis, 1996.  The Capitalization, Amortization and Value Relevance 
of R&D.  Journal of Accounting and Economics 21, 107-138. 
 
Nissim, D., and S. H. Penman, 2003.  Financial Statement Analysis of Leverage and How 
it Informs About Profitability and Price-to-Book Ratios.  Review of Accounting 
Studies, 8, 531-560. 
 
Palepu, K. G., P.M. Healy and V. L. Bernard, 2000.  Business Analysis and Valuation.  
Southwestern College Publishing, 2nd edition. 
 
Penman, S. H., and X. J. Zhang, 2002.  Accounting Conservatism, the Quality of 
Earnings and Stock Returns. Accounting Review 77, 237-264. 
 
Richardson, S. A., R. G. Sloan, M. T. Soliman and I Tuna, 2004.  The Implications of 
Firm Growth and Accounting Distortions for Accruals and Profitability.  Working 
paper, University of Michigan. 
 
Shumway, T., 1997.  The Delisting Bias in CRSP Data.  Journal of Finance 52, 327-340. 
 
Sloan, R. G., 1996.  Do Stock Prices Fully Reflect Information in Accruals and Cash 
Flows about Future Earnings?  The Accounting Review 71, 289-315. 
 
Thomas, J. K. and H. Zhang, 2002.  Inventory Changes and Future Returns.  Review of 
Accounting Studies 7, 163-187. 
 
Watts, R. L., 2003.  Conservatism in Accounting Part I: Explanations and Implications.  
Accounting Horizons, 17, 207-221. 
 

 
45
Table 1 
Illustration of Balance Sheet Categorization of Accruals. 
 
Non-Cash Assets 
Liabilities 
 
Data 
Item 
Initial 
Extended 
 
Data 
Item 
Initial 
Extended 
Short Term 
Investments 
#193 
∆FIN 
∆STI 
Debt in Current 
Liabilities 
#34 
∆FIN 
∆FINL 
Receivables 
#2 
∆WC 
∆COA 
Accounts Payable 
#70 
∆WC 
∆COL 
Inventory 
#3 
∆WC 
∆COA 
Income Taxes 
Payable 
#71 
∆WC 
∆COL 
Other Current 
Assets 
#68 
∆WC 
∆COA 
Other Current 
Liabilities 
#72 
∆WC 
∆COL 
Property, Plant and 
Equipment, Net 
#8 
∆NCO 
∆NCOA 
Long Term Debt 
#9 
∆FIN 
∆FINL 
Investments – 
Equity Method 
#31 
∆NCO 
∆NCOA 
Other Liabilities 
#75 
∆NCO 
∆NCOL 
Investments-Other 
#32 
∆FIN 
∆LTI 
Deferred Taxes 
#35 
∆NCO 
∆NCOL 
Intangibles 
#33 
∆NCO 
∆NCOA 
Minority Interest 
#38 
∆NCO 
∆NCOL 
Other Assets 
#69 
∆NCO 
∆NCOA 
Preferred Stock 
#130 
∆FIN 
∆FINL 
Data Item denotes the Compustat annual data item number.  Initial denotes the accrual component in which the item is 
classified for our initial accrual decomposition.  Extended denotes the accrual component in which the item is classified for 
our extended accrual decomposition. 
 
∆WC is the change in working capital accruals, defined as WCt - WCt-1. Where WC = Current Operating Assets (COA) - 
Current Operating Liabilities (COL) where COA=Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Cash and Short Term Investments 
(STI) (Compustat Item #1). COL=Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) - Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item 
#34).  
 
∆NCO is defined as NCOt - NCOt-1. Where NCO = Non-Current Operating Assets (NCOA) - Non-Current Operating 
Liabilities (NCOL) where NCOA = Total Assets (Compustat item #6) - Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Investments 
and Advances (Compustat Item #32).  NCOL = Total Liabilities (Compustat Item #181) - Current Liabilities (Compustat 
Item #5) – Long-term debt (Compustat Item #9).  
 
∆FIN is defined as FINt - FINt-1. Where FIN = Financial Assets (FINA) - Financial Liabilities (FINL).  FINA = Short Term 
Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #193) + Long Term Investments (LTI) (Compustat Item #32).  FINL= Long term debt 
(Compustat Item #9) + Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34) + Preferred Stock (Compustat Item #130).  

 
46
Table 2 
Summary of Reliability Assessments by Accrual Category. 
 
Accrual 
Category 
Decomposition 
Level 
Reliability 
Assessment 
Summary of Reasoning Behind Reliability Assessment 
∆COA 
Extended 
Low 
Category is dominated by receivables and inventory.  Receivables require 
the estimation of uncollectibles and are a common earnings management 
tool (e.g., channel stuffing).  Inventory accruals entail various cost flow 
assumptions/allocations and subjective write-downs. 
∆COL 
Extended 
High 
Category is dominated by payables, which represent financial obligations 
of the firm that can be measured with a high degree of reliability. 
∆WC 
Initial 
Medium 
Combination of ∆COA (low reliability) and ∆COL (high reliability) 
suggests medium reliability. 
∆NCOA 
Extended 
Low 
Category is dominated by PP&E and intangibles.  Both PP&E and 
internally generated intangibles (e.g., capitalized software development 
costs) involve subjective capitalization decisions.  Moreover, PP&E and 
intangibles involve subjective amortization and write-down decisions. 
∆NCOL 
Extended 
Medium 
Category includes long-term payables, deferred taxes and postretirement 
benefit obligations.  Best characterized as a mixture of accruals with 
varying degrees of reliability, so classify as medium reliability. 
∆NCO 
Initial 
Low/ 
Medium 
Combination of ∆NCOA (low reliability) and ∆NCOL (medium 
reliability) suggests low/medium reliability. 
∆STI 
Extended 
High 
Represents marketable financial securities that are expected to be sold 
within 12 months.  Market values of marketable financial securities can 
be measured with a high degree of reliability. 
∆LTI 
Extended 
Medium 
Category includes long-term receivables and investments in marketable 
securities that are expected be held for more than a year. Best 
characterized as a mixture of accruals with varying degrees of reliability, 
so classify as medium reliability. 
∆FINL 
Extended 
High 
Category contains interest-bearing financial obligations.  Typically 
measured with a high degree of reliability using effective interest rate at 
origination. 
∆FIN 
Initial 
High 
Combination of ∆STI (high reliability), ∆LTI (medium reliability) and 
∆FINL (high reliability) suggests high reliability. 
∆WC is the change in working capital accruals, defined as WCt - WCt-1. Where WC = Current Operating Assets (COA) - 
Current Operating Liabilities (COL) where COA=Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Cash and Short Term Investments 
(STI) (Compustat Item #1). COL=Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) - Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item 
#34).  

 
47
 
∆NCO is defined as NCOt - NCOt-1. Where NCO = Non-Current Operating Assets (NCOA) - Non-Current Operating 
Liabilities (NCOL) where NCOA = Total Assets (Compustat item #6) - Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Investments 
and Advances (Compustat Item #32).  NCOL = Total Liabilities (Compustat Item #181) - Current Liabilities (Compustat 
Item #5) – Long-term debt (Compustat Item #9).  
 
∆FIN is defined as FINt - FINt-1. Where FIN = Financial Assets (FINA) - Financial Liabilities (FINL).  FINA = Short Term 
Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #193) + Long Term Investments (LTI) (Compustat Item #32).  FINL= Long term debt 
(Compustat Item #9) + Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34) + Preferred Stock (Compustat Item #130).  

 
48
TABLE 3 
Descriptive Statistics and Correlations for the Initial Accrual Decomposition. 
 
 
Panel A: Descriptive Statistics 
 
Mean 
Std. Dev. 
25% 
Median 
75% 
TACCt 
0.052 
0.181 
-0.007 
0.039 
0.098 
∆WCt 
0.022 
0.108 
-0.020 
0.015 
0.063 
∆NCOt 
0.051 
0.151 
-0.009 
0.025 
0.082 
∆FINt 
-0.021 
0.181 
-0.080 
-0.006 
0.041 
ROAt 
0.070 
0.175 
0.032 
0.093 
0.151 
ROAt+1 
0.063 
0.177 
0.025 
0.089 
0.146 
FROAt+2 
0.078 
0.130 
0.040 
0.091 
0.140 
RETt+1 
0.010 
0.715 
-0.330 
-0.078 
0.199 
 
The sample consists of 108,617 firm years from 1962 to 2001. 
 
TACC is total accruals from the balance sheet approach.  It is calculated as ∆Working Capital (∆WC) + ∆Non-Current 
Operating (∆NCO) + ∆Financial (∆FIN).  Total accruals and all of its components (described below) are deflated by 
average total assets. 
 
∆WC is defined as WCt - WCt-1. Where WC = Current Operating Assets (COA) - Current Operating Liabilities (COL) 
where COA=Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Cash and Short Term Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #1). 
COL=Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) - Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34).  
 
∆NCO is defined as NCOt - NCOt-1. Where NCO = Non-Current Operating Assets (NCOA) - Non-Current Operating 
Liabilities (NCOL) where NCOA = Total Assets (Compustat item #6) - Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Investments 
and Advances (Compustat Item #32).  NCOL = Total Liabilities (Compustat Item #181) - Current Liabilities (Compustat 
Item #5) – Long-term debt (Compustat Item #9).  
 
∆FIN is defined as FINt - FINt-1. Where FIN = Financial Assets (FINA) - Financial Liabilities (FINL).  FINA = Short Term 
Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #193) + Long Term Investments (LTI) (Compustat Item #32).  FINL= Long term debt 
(Compustat Item #9) + Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34) + Preferred Stock (Compustat Item #130).  
 
ROA is operating income after depreciation (Compustat Item #178) deflated by average total assets. 
 
FROA is the average ROA over the next four years.  For example, FROAt+2 is the average ROA for years t+2 through t+5.  
There are 72,475 observations for FROA. 
 
RET is the annual buy-hold size-adjusted return.  The size-adjusted return is calculated by deducting the value-weighted 
average return for all firms in the same size-matched decile, where size is measured as market capitalization at the 
beginning of the return cumulation period.  The return cumulation period begins four months after the end of the fiscal year. 

 
49
 
Panel B: Correlation Matrix  - Pearson (above diagonal) and Spearman (below diagonal) (p-values shown in italics below 
correlations) 
 
TACCt 
∆WCt 
∆NCOt 
∆FINt 
ROAt 
ROAt+1 
FROAt+2 
RETt+1 
TACCt 
-- 
0.392 
(0.0001) 
0.423 
(0.0001) 
0.418 
(0.0001) 
0.250 
(0.0001) 
0.125 
(0.0001) 
0.072 
(0.0001) 
-0.058 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∆WCt 
0.419 
(0.0001) 
-- 
0.108 
(0.0001) 
-0.288 
(0.0001) 
0.224 
(0.0001) 
0.105 
(0.0001) 
0.059 
(0.0001) 
-0.046 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∆NCOt 
0.416 
(0.0001) 
0.180 
(0.0001) 
-- 
-0.475 
(0.0001) 
0.085 
(0.0001) 
0.024 
(0.0001) 
0.020 
(0.0001) 
-0.062 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∆FINt 
0.226 
(0.0001) 
-0.354 
(0.0001) 
-0.470 
(0.0001) 
 
-- 
0.043 
(0.0001) 
0.038 
(0.0001) 
0.014 
(0.0003) 
0.021 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ROAt 
0.437 
(0.0001) 
0.261 
(0.0001) 
0.215 
(0.0001) 
0.061 
(0.0001) 
-- 
0.792 
(0.0001) 
0.613 
(0.0001) 
-0.003 
(0.3098) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ROAt+1 
0.274 
(0.0001) 
0.140 
(0.0001) 
0.106 
(0.0001) 
0.081 
(0.0001) 
0.776 
(0.0001) 
-- 
0.696 
(0.0001) 
0.138 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FROAt+2 
0.164 
(0.0001) 
0.072 
(0.0001) 
0.071 
(0.0001) 
0.046 
(0.0001) 
0.566 
(0.0001) 
0.668 
(0.0001) 
-- 
0.126 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RETt+1 
-0.049 
(0.0001) 
-0.060 
(0.0001) 
-0.066 
(0.0001) 
0.052 
(0.0001) 
0.087 
(0.0001) 
0.301 
(0.0001) 
0.272 
(0.0001) 
-- 
 
All variables are as defined in panel A. 
 
 

 
50
TABLE 4 
Descriptive Statistics and Correlations for Extended Accrual Decomposition. 
 
 
Panel A: Descriptive Statistics 
 
Mean 
Std. Dev. 
25% 
Median 
75% 
TACCt 
0.052 
0.181 
-0.007 
0.039 
0.098 
 
∆COAt 
0.047 
0.133 
-0.006 
0.031 
0.094 
∆COLt 
0.025 
0.084 
-0.008 
0.017 
0.052 
∆NCOAt 
0.057 
0.153 
-0.006 
0.029 
0.089 
∆NCOLt 
0.006 
0.047 
0.000 
0.002 
0.011 
∆FINAt 
0.009 
0.107 
-0.003 
0 
0.007 
∆FINLt 
0.030 
0.151 
-0.021 
0.001 
0.066 
∆STIt 
0.006 
0.096 
0 
0 
0 
∆LTIt 
0.003 
0.046 
0 
0 
0 
ROAt 
0.070 
0.175 
0.032 
0.093 
0.151 
ROAt+1 
0.063 
0.177 
0.025 
0.089 
0.146 
FROAt+2 
0.078 
0.130 
0.040 
0.091 
0.140 
RETt+1 
0.010 
0.715 
-0.330 
-0.078 
0.199 
 
The sample consists of 108,617 firm years from 1962 to 2001. 
 
TACC is total accruals from the balance sheet approach.  It is calculated as ∆Working Capital (∆WC) + 
∆Non-Current Operating (∆NCO) + ∆Financial (∆FIN).  This can be equivalently written as (∆COA - 
∆COL) + (∆NCOA - ∆NCOL) + (∆FINA - ∆FINL).  Total accruals and all of its components (described 
below) are deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆COA is change in current operating assets defined as COAt - COAt-1.  Where COA = Current Assets 
(Compustat Item #4) - Cash and Short Term Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #1).  
 
∆COL is change in current operating liabilities defined as COLt - COLt-1.  Where COL=Current Liabilities 
(Compustat Item #5) - Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34).  
 
∆NCOA is change in non-current operating assets defined as NCOAt - NCOAt-1.  Where NCOA = Total 
Assets (Compustat item #6) - Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) –Investments and Advances (Compustat 
Item #32).  
 
∆NCOL is change in non-current operating liabilities defined as NCOLt - NCOLt-1.  Where NCOL = Total 
Liabilities (Compustat Item #181) - Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) - Long-term debt (Compustat 
Item #9).  
 
∆FINA is change in financial assets defined as FINAt - FINAt-1.  Where FINAt = Short Term Investments 
(STI) (Compustat Item #193) + Long Term Investments (LTI) (Compustat Item #32).   

 
51
 
∆FINL is change in financial liabilities defined as FINLt - FINLt-1.  Where FINL= Long term debt 
(Compustat Item #9) + Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34) + Preferred Stock (Compustat 
Item #130).  
 
∆STI is change in short term investments. 
 
∆LTI is change in long-term investments. 
 
ROA is operating income after depreciation (Compustat Item #178) deflated by average total assets. 
 
FROA is the average ROA over the next four years.  For example, FROAt+2 is the average ROA for years 
t+2 through t+5.   There are 72,475 observations for FROA. 
 
RET is the annual buy-hold size-adjusted return.  The size-adjusted return is calculated by deducting the 
value-weighted average return for all firms in the same size-matched decile, where size is measured as 
market capitalization at the beginning of the return cumulation period.  The return cumulation period 
begins four months after the end of the fiscal year. 

 
52
 
Panel B: Correlation Matrix  - Pearson (above diagonal) and Spearman (below diagonal) (p-values shown in italics 
below correlations) 
 
TACCt 
∆COAt 
∆COLt 
∆NCOAt 
∆NCOLt 
∆FINAt 
∆FINLt 
ROAt 
ROAt+1 
FROAt+2 
RETt+1 
TACCt 
-- 
0.376 
(0.0001) 
0.090 
(0.0001) 
0.401 
(0.0001) 
-0.045 
(0.0001) 
0.481 
(0.0001) 
-0.175 
(0.0001) 
0.250 
(0.0001) 
0.125 
(0.0001) 
0.072 
(0.0001) 
-0.058 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∆COAt 
0.441 
(0.0001) 
-- 
0.583 
(0.0001) 
0.295 
(0.0001) 
0.084 
(0.0001) 
-0.009 
(0.0001) 
0.368 
(0.0001) 
0.222 
(0.0001) 
0.127 
(0.0001) 
0.068 
(0.0001) 
-0.055 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∆COLt 
0.173 
(0.0001) 
0.560 
(0.0001) 
-- 
0.304 
(0.0001) 
0.058 
(0.0001) 
0.082 
(0.0001) 
0.207 
(0.0001) 
0.061 
(0.0001) 
0.065 
(0.0001) 
0.033 
(0.0001) 
-0.028 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∆NCOAt 
0.409 
(0.0001) 
0.362 
(0.0001) 
0.319 
(0.0001) 
-- 
0.212 
(0.0001) 
-0.020 
(0.0001) 
0.545 
(0.0001) 
0.090 
(0.0001) 
0.029 
(0.0001) 
0.024 
(0.0001) 
-0.063 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∆NCOLt 
0.102 
(0.0001) 
0.128 
(0.0001) 
0.094 
(0.0001) 
0.296 
(0.0001) 
-- 
0.045 
(0.0001) 
0.029 
(0.0001) 
0.020 
(0.0001) 
0.017 
(0.0001) 
0.012 
(0.0016) 
-0.006 
(0.0544) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∆FINAt 
0.261 
(0.0001) 
-0.033 
(0.0001) 
0.068 
(0.0001) 
-0.039 
(0.0001) 
0.054 
(0.0001) 
-- 
0.009 
(0.0032) 
0.050 
(0.0001) 
0.031 
(0.0001) 
0.003 
(0.3752) 
-0.022 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∆FINLt 
-0.056 
(0.0001) 
0.372 
(0.0001) 
0.174 
(0.0001) 
0.504 
(0.0001) 
0.104 
(0.0001) 
-0.001 
(0.8206) 
-- 
-0.008 
(0.0069) 
-0.018 
(0.0001) 
-0.012 
(0.0010) 
-0.040 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ROAt 
0.437 
(0.0001) 
0.325 
(0.0001) 
0.183 
(0.0336) 
0.239 
(0.0001) 
0.186 
(0.0001) 
0.100 
(0.0001) 
0.004 
(0.1891) 
-- 
0.792 
(0.0001) 
0.613 
(0.0000) 
-0.003 
(0.3098) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ROAt+1 
0.274 
(0.0001) 
0.205 
(0.0001) 
0.149 
(0.0001) 
0.123 
(0.0001) 
0.137 
(0.0001) 
0.070 
(0.0001) 
-0.038 
(0.0001) 
0.776 
(0.0001) 
-- 
0.696 
(0.0001) 
0.138 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FROAt+2 
0.164 
(0.0001) 
0.112 
(0.0001) 
0.082 
(0.0001) 
0.082 
(0.0001) 
0.090 
(0.0001) 
0.044 
(0.0001) 
-0.015 
(0.0001) 
0.566 
(0.0001) 
0.668 
(0.0001) 
-- 
0.126 
(0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RETt+1 
-0.049 
(0.0001) 
-0.070 
(0.0001) 
-0.034 
(0.0001) 
-0.059 
(0.0001) 
0.032 
(0.0001) 
0.001 
(0.7008) 
-0.057 
(0.0001) 
0.087 
(0.0001) 
0.301 
(0.0001) 
0.272 
(0.0001) 
-- 
All variables are as defined in panel A. 

 
53
TABLE 5 
Time-Series Means and t-Statistics for Coefficients from Annual Cross-Sectional Regressions of Next 
Year’s Accounting Rate of Return on This Year’s Accounting Rate of Return and This Year’s 
Accruals.  The Sample Consists of 108,617 Firm-Year Observations from 1962-2001. 
 
 
Panel A: OLS regressions for Total Accruals 
 
 
ROAt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1 ROAt + ρ2TACCt + υt+1 
 
Intercept 
ROA 
TACC 
Adj. R2 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coefficient  
0.012 
0.766 
 
0.582 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coefficient  
0.014 
0.796 
-0.082 
0.588 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-16.13) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel B: OLS regressions for the Initial Accrual Decomposition 
 
ROAt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1 ROAt + ρ2∆WCt + ρ3∆NCOt + ρ4 ∆FINt + υt+1 
 
Intercept 
ROA 
∆WC 
∆NCO 
∆FIN 
Adj. R2 
Predicted 
Reliability 
 
 
Medium 
Low/ 
Medium 
High 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.013 
0.784 
-0.116 
 
 
0.589 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-15.05) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.014 
0.772 
 
-0.047 
 
0.584 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
(-12.39) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.013 
0.764 
 
 
0.015 
0.583 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
(2.86) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.015 
0.802 
-0.138 
-0.074 
-0.052 
0.593 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-19.05) 
(-11.18) 
(-8.71) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel C: OLS regressions for the Extended Accrual Decomposition 
ROAt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1ROAt + ρ2 ∆COAt - ρ3 ∆COLt + ρ4 ∆NCOAt - ρ5 ∆NCOLt + ρ6 ∆STIt + ρ7 ∆LTIt - ρ8 ∆ FINLt + υt+1 
Intercept 
ROA 
∆COA 
-∆COL 
∆NCOA 
-∆NCOL 
∆STI 
∆LTI 
-∆FINL 
Adj. R2 
Predicted 
Reliability 
 
 
Low 
High 
Low 
Medium 
High 
Medium 
High 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.014 
0.780 
-0.064 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.586 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-12.08) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.012 
0.764 
 
-0.035 
 
 
 
 
 
0.583 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
(-4.74) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.014 
0.772 
 
 
-0.047 
 
 
 
 
0.584 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
(-12.63) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.012 
0.766 
 
 
 
0.012 
 
 
 
0.582 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
 
(0.96) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.012 
0.765 
 
 
 
 
0.036 
 
 
0.582 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1.05) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.013 
0.766 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.045 
 
0.583 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(-4.11) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.013 
0.765 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.023 
0.584 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3.83) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.014 
0.801 
-0.137 
-0.178 
-0.084 
-0.075 
0.004 
-0.084 
-0.056 
0.595 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-18.81) 
(-18.13) 
(-13.03) 
(-6.48) 
(0.10) 
(-6.33) 
(-8.17) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
54
 
The sample consists of 108,617 firm years from 1962 to 2001.  Regression results are based on 40 annual regression using 
the Fama and MacBeth (1973) approach. 
 
TACC is total accruals from the balance sheet approach.  It is calculated as ∆Working Capital (∆WC) + ∆Non-Current 
Operating (∆NCO) + ∆Financial (∆FIN).  This can be equivalently written as (∆COA - ∆COL) + (∆NCOA - ∆NCOL) + 
(∆FINA - ∆FINL).  Total accruals and all of its components (described below) are deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆WC is defined as WCt - WCt-1. Where WC = Current Operating Assets (COA) - Current Operating Liabilities (COL) 
where COA=Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Cash and Short Term Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #1). 
COL=Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) - Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34).  
∆COA is change in current operating assets defined as COAt - COAt-1.   
∆COL is change in current operating liabilities defined as COLt - COLt-1.   
 
∆NCO is defined as NCOt - NCOt-1. Where NCO = Non-Current Operating Assets (NCOA) - Non-Current Operating 
Liabilities (NCOL) where NCOA = Total Assets (Compustat item #6) - Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Investments 
and Advances (Compustat Item #32).  NCOL = Total Liabilities (Compustat Item #181) - Current Liabilities (Compustat 
Item #5) – Long-term debt (Compustat Item #9).  
∆NCOA is change in non-current operating assets defined as NCOAt - NCOAt-1.   
∆NCOL is change in non-current operating liabilities defined as NCOLt - NCOLt-1.   
 
∆FIN is defined as FINt - FINt-1. Where FIN = Financial Assets (FINA) - Financial Liabilities (FINL).  FINA = Short Term 
Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #193) + Long Term Investments (LTI) (Compustat Item #32).  FINL= Long term debt 
(Compustat Item #9) + Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34) + Preferred Stock (Compustat Item #130).  
∆FINA is change in financial assets defined as FINAt - FINAt-1.   
∆FINL is change in financial liabilities defined as FINLt - FINLt-1.   
∆STI is change in short term investments. 
∆LTI is change in long-term investments. 
 
ROA is operating income after depreciation (Compustat Item #178) deflated by average total assets. 

 
55
 TABLE 6 
Time-Series Means and t-Statistics for Coefficients from Annual Cross-Sectional Regressions of the 
Average Future Accounting Rate of Return (FROA) on This Year’s Accounting Rate of Return and 
This Year’s Accruals.  The Sample Consists of 72,475 Firm-Year Observations from 1962-2001. 
 
 
Panel A: OLS Regressions for Total Accruals 
 
FROAt+2 = ρ0 + ρ1 ROAt + ρ2TACC,t + υ t+2 
 
Intercept 
ROA 
TACC 
Adj. R2 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coefficient  
0.038 
0.494 
 
0.342 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coefficient  
0.039 
0.539 
-0.113 
0.358 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-14.63) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel B: OLS regressions for the Initial Accrual Decomposition 
 
FROAt+2 = ρ0 + ρ1 ROAt + ρ2∆WCt + ρ3∆NCOt + ρ4 ∆FINt + υ t+2 
 
Intercept 
ROA 
∆WC 
∆NCO 
∆FIN 
Adj. R2 
Predicted 
Reliability 
 
 
Medium 
Low/ 
Medium 
High 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.039 
0.510 
-0.093 
 
 
0.350 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-11.02) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.040 
0.500 
 
-0.050 
 
0.346 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
(-7.83) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.038 
0.494 
 
 
-0.006 
0.343 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
(-1.07) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.040 
0.541 
-0.139 
-0.106 
-0.093 
0.361 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-15.17) 
(-11.55) 
(-12.98) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel C: OLS regressions for the Extended Accrual Decomposition 
FROAt+2 = ρ0 + ρ1 ROAt + ρ2 ∆COAt - ρ3 ∆COLt + ρ4 ∆NCOAt - ρ5 ∆NCOLt + ρ6 ∆STIt + ρ7 ∆LTIt - ρ8 ∆ FINLt + υ t+2 
Intercept 
ROA 
∆COA 
-∆COL 
∆NCOA   -∆NCOL 
∆STI 
∆LTI 
-∆FINL 
Adj. R2 
Predicted 
Reliability 
 
 
Low 
High 
Low 
Medium 
High 
Medium 
High 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.040 
0.516 
-0.085 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.352 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-13.48) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.039 
0.501 
 
0.057 
 
 
 
 
 
0.345 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
(5.22) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.040 
0.501 
 
 
-0.049 
 
 
 
 
0.346 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
(-7.72) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.038 
0.500 
 
 
 
0.029 
 
 
 
0.343 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
 
(1.65) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.038 
0.495 
 
 
 
 
0.015 
 
 
0.344 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(0.26) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.038 
0.494 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.070 
 
0.343 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(-4.48) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.039 
0.494 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.013 
0.343 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2.43) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.040 
0.547 
-0.146 
-0.093 
-0.103 
-0.088 
-0.018 
-0.131 
-0.098 
0.366 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-16.44) 
(-7.00) 
(-11.78) 
(-5.11) 
(-0.28) 
(-8.31) 
(-13.89) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
56
 
The sample consists of 72,475 firm years from 1962 to 2001.  Regression results are based on 40 annual regression using 
the Fama and MacBeth (1973) approach. 
 
TACC is total accruals from the balance sheet approach.  It is calculated as ∆Working Capital (∆WC) + ∆Non-Current 
Operating (∆NCO) + ∆Financial (∆FIN).  This can be equivalently written as (∆COA - ∆COL) + (∆NCOA - ∆NCOL) + 
(∆FINA - ∆FINL).  Total accruals and all of its components (described below) are deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆WC is defined as WCt - WCt-1. Where WC = Current Operating Assets (COA) - Current Operating Liabilities (COL) 
where COA=Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Cash and Short Term Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #1). 
COL=Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) - Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34).  
∆COA is change in current operating assets defined as COAt - COAt-1.   
∆COL is change in current operating liabilities defined as COLt - COLt-1.   
 
∆NCO is defined as NCOt - NCOt-1. Where NCO = Non-Current Operating Assets (NCOA) - Non-Current Operating 
Liabilities (NCOL) where NCOA = Total Assets (Compustat item #6) - Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Investments 
and Advances (Compustat Item #32).  NCOL = Total Liabilities (Compustat Item #181) - Current Liabilities (Compustat 
Item #5) – Long-term debt (Compustat Item #9).  
∆NCOA is change in non-current operating assets defined as NCOAt - NCOAt-1.   
∆NCOL is change in non-current operating liabilities defined as NCOLt - NCOLt-1.   
 
∆FIN is defined as FINt - FINt-1. Where FIN = Financial Assets (FINA) - Financial Liabilities (FINL).  FINA = Short Term 
Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #193) + Long Term Investments (LTI) (Compustat Item #32).  FINL= Long term debt 
(Compustat Item #9) + Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34) + Preferred Stock (Compustat Item #130).  
∆FINA is change in financial assets defined as FINAt - FINAt-1.   
∆FINL is change in financial liabilities defined as FINLt - FINLt-1.   
∆STI is change in short term investments. 
∆LTI is change in long-term investments. 
 
ROA is operating income after depreciation (Compustat Item #178) deflated by average total assets. 
 
FROA is the average ROA over the next four years.  For example, FROAt+2 is the average ROA for years t+2 through t+5.   

 
57
TABLE 7 
Additional Tests Investigating How the Change in Operating Assets (∆OA) and the Change in 
Operating Liabilities (∆OL) Relate to Next Year’s Accounting Rate of Return.  The Sample Consists 
of 108,617 Firm-Year Observations from 1962-2001. 
 
 
Panel A: Mean Coefficients and t-statistics from Annual Cross-Sectional Regressions Analyzing 
a Financing Decomposition of ∆OA. 
 
ROAt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1ROAt + ρ2 ∆OAt + υt+1 
 
ROAt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1ROAt + ρ2 ∆OLt + ρ3∆FINLt - ρ4∆FAt + ρ5 ∆Equityt + υt+1 
 
 
Intercept 
ROA 
∆OA 
∆OL 
∆FINL 
-∆FA 
∆Equity 
Adj. R2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.015 
0.782 
-0.044 
 
 
 
 
0.586 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-14.93) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.013 
0.817 
 
0.047 
-0.039 
-0.049 
-0.106 
0.595 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
(6.61) 
(-7.84) 
(-8.73) 
(-12.22) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel B: Mean Future Change in the Accounting Rate of Return (∆ROAt+1) Partitioned by 
Independent Quintile Sorts on ∆OA and ∆OL (Number of Observations in Parentheses). 
 
 
∆OL 
∆OA 
Low 
2 
3 
4 
High 
Total Avg. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.010 
0.015 
0.023 
0.032 
0.065 
0.018 
Low 
(10,991) 
(4,809) 
(2,709) 
(1,837) 
(1,364) 
(21,710) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.011 
-0.005 
0.000 
0.005 
0.027 
-0.001 
2 
(4,763) 
(6,997) 
(5,326) 
(3,179) 
(1,465) 
(21,730) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.019 
-0.011 
-0.007 
-0.003 
0.008 
-0.007 
3 
(2,807) 
(5,132) 
(6,337) 
(5,142) 
(2,313) 
(21,731) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.037 
-0.024 
-0.017 
-0.015 
-0.006 
-0.017 
4 
(2,009) 
(3,282) 
(4,927) 
(6,580) 
(4,931) 
(21,729) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.040 
-0.035 
-0.030 
-0.031 
-0.026 
-0.029 
High 
(1,140) 
(1,510) 
(2,431) 
(4,992) 
(11,644) 
(21,717) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.006 
-0.007 
-0.006 
-0.009 
-0.009 
 
Total 
Average 
(21,710) 
(21,730) 
(21,730) 
(21,730) 
(21,717) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∆OA is the change in operating assets, defined as ∆COA + ∆NCOA. 
 
∆COA is change in current operating assets defined as COAt - COAt-1.  COA=Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Cash 
and Short Term Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #1).  COA is deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆NCOA is change in non-current operating assets defined as NCOAt - NCOAt-1.  NCOA = Total Assets (Compustat Item 
#6) - Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Investments and Advances (Compustat Item #32). NCOA is deflated by average 
total assets. 
 
∆OL is the change in operating liabilities, defined as ∆COL + ∆NCOL. 
 

 
58
∆COL is change in current operating liabilities defined as COLt - COLt-1.  COL=Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) - 
Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34).  COL is deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆NCOL is change in non-current operating liabilities defined as NCOLt - NCOLt-1.  NCOL = Total Liabilities (Compustat 
Item #181) - Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) – Long-term debt (Compustat Item #9).  NCOL is deflated by average 
total assets. 
 
∆FINL is the change in financial liabilities (inclusive of preferred stock) defined as FINLt - FINLt-1.  FINL = Long-term 
debt (Compustat Item #9) + Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34) + Preferred Stock (Compustat Item #130).  
FINL is deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆FA is the change in financial assets defined as FAt - FAt-1.  FA = Cash and cash equivalents (Compustat Item #1) + 
Investments and Advances (Compustat Item #32).  FA is deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆Equity is the change in external equity financing defined as EQt - EQt-1.  EQ = Book value of common equity (Compustat 
Item #60). EQ is deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆ROAt+1 is the change in the accounting rate of return defined as ROAt+1 – ROAt, where ROA is operating income after 
depreciation (Compustat Item #178) deflated by average total assets in year t+1. 

 
59
TABLE 8 
Time-Series Means and t-Statistics for Coefficients from Annual Cross-Sectional Regressions of Next 
Year’s Size Adjusted Stock Return on This Year’s Accruals.  The Sample Consists of 108,617 Firm-
Year Observations for the Period 1962-2001. 
 
 
Panel A: OLS regressions for Total Accruals 
 
 
RETt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1 ROAt + ρ2TACCt + υt+1 
 
Intercept 
ROA 
TACC 
Adj. R2 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coefficient  
0.007 
0.020 
 
0.006 
t-statistic 
(0.86) 
(0.36) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coefficient  
0.013 
0.083 
-0.197 
0.011 
t-statistic 
(1.52) 
(1.47) 
(-6.38) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel B: OLS regressions for the Initial Accrual Decomposition 
 
RETt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1 ROAt + ρ2∆WCt + ρ3∆NCOt + ρ4 ∆FINt + υt+1 
 
Intercept 
ROA 
∆WC 
∆NCO 
∆FIN 
Adj. R2 
Predicted 
Reliability 
 
 
Medium 
Low/ 
Medium 
High 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.010 
0.069 
-0.309 
 
 
0.011 
t-statistic 
(1.19) 
(1.23) 
(-8.72) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.019 
0.048 
 
-0.268 
 
0.012 
t-statistic 
(2.14) 
(0.86) 
 
(-8.76) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.012 
0.007 
 
 
0.123 
0.010 
t-statistic 
(1.40) 
(0.12) 
 
 
(5.85) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.022 
0.094 
-0.300 
-0.271 
-0.054 
0.016 
t-statistic 
(2.45) 
(1.69) 
(-7.54) 
(-6.77) 
(-1.94) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel C: OLS regressions for the Extended Accrual Decomposition 
RETt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1 ROAt + ρ2 ∆COAt - ρ3 ∆COLt + ρ4 ∆NCOAt - ρ5 ∆NCOLt + ρ6 ∆STIt + ρ7 ∆LTIt - ρ8 ∆ FINLt + υt+1 
Intercept 
ROA 
∆COA 
-∆COL 
∆NCOA 
-∆NCOL 
∆STI 
∆LTI 
-∆FINL 
Adj. R2 
Predicted 
Reliability 
 
 
Low 
High 
Low 
Medium 
High 
Medium 
High 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.016 
0.085 
-0.300 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.012 
t-statistic 
(1.74) 
(1.55) 
(-8.71) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.012 
0.031 
 
0.213 
 
 
 
 
 
0.008 
t-statistic 
(1.29) 
(0.57) 
 
(4.49) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.021 
0.049 
 
 
-0.263 
 
 
 
 
0.012 
t-statistic 
(2.30) 
(0.88) 
 
 
(-8.44) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.008 
0.021 
 
 
 
0.053 
 
 
 
0.007 
t-statistic 
(0.88) 
(0.37) 
 
 
 
(0.65) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.008 
0.016 
 
 
 
 
0.054 
 
 
0.007 
t-statistic 
(0.94) 
(0.29) 
 
 
 
 
(0.43) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.008 
0.021 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.204 
 
0.007 
t-statistic 
(0.92) 
(0.38) 
 
 
 
 
 
(-3.38) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.014 
0.015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.206 
0.010 
t-statistic 
(1.64) 
(0.26) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(8.01) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.024 
0.106 
-0.309 
-0.200 
-0.250 
-0.233 
0.026 
-0.253 
-0.027 
0.018 
t-statistic 
(2.51) 
(1.93) 
(-7.70) 
(-4.10) 
(-6.42) 
(-2.98) 
(0.17) 
(-4.18) 
(-0.90) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
60
 
The sample consists of 108,617 firm years from 1962 to 2001.  Regression results are based on 40 annual regression using 
the Fama and MacBeth (1973) approach. 
 
TACC is total accruals from the balance sheet approach.  It is calculated as ∆Working Capital (∆WC) + ∆Non-Current 
Operating (∆NCO) + ∆Financial (∆FIN).  This can be equivalently written as (∆COA - ∆COL) + (∆NCOA - ∆NCOL) + 
(∆FINA - ∆FINL).  Total accruals and all of its components (described below) are deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆WC is defined as WCt - WCt-1. Where WC = Current Operating Assets (COA) - Current Operating Liabilities (COL) 
where COA=Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Cash and Short Term Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #1). 
COL=Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) - Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34).  
∆COA is change in current operating assets defined as COAt - COAt-1.   
∆COL is change in current operating liabilities defined as COLt - COLt-1.   
 
∆NCO is defined as NCOt - NCOt-1. Where NCO = Non-Current Operating Assets (NCOA) - Non-Current Operating 
Liabilities (NCOL) where NCOA = Total Assets (Compustat item #6) - Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Investments 
and Advances (Compustat Item #32).  NCOL = Total Liabilities (Compustat Item #181) - Current Liabilities (Compustat 
Item #5) – Long-term debt (Compustat Item #9).  
∆NCOA is change in non-current operating assets defined as NCOAt - NCOAt-1.   
∆NCOL is change in non-current operating liabilities defined as NCOLt - NCOLt-1.   
 
∆FIN is defined as FINt - FINt-1. Where FIN = Financial Assets (FINA) - Financial Liabilities (FINL).  FINA = Short Term 
Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #193) + Long Term Investments (LTI) (Compustat Item #32).  FINL= Long term debt 
(Compustat Item #9) + Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34) + Preferred Stock (Compustat Item #130).  
∆FINA is change in financial assets defined as FINAt - FINAt-1.   
∆FINL is change in financial liabilities defined as FINLt - FINLt-1.   
∆STI is change in short term investments. 
∆LTI is change in long-term investments. 
 
ROA is operating income after depreciation (Compustat Item #178) deflated by average total assets. 
 
RET is the annual buy-hold size-adjusted return.  The size-adjusted return is calculated by deducting the value-weighted 
average return for all firms in the same size-matched decile, where size is measured as market capitalization at the 
beginning of the return cumulation period.  The return cumulation period begins four months after the end of the fiscal year. 

 
61
TABLE 9 
Additional Tests Investigating How the Change in Operating Assets (∆OA) and the Change in 
Operating Liabilities (∆OL) Relate to Next Year’s Size Adjusted Annual Stock Returns (RETt+1).  The 
Sample Consists of 108,617 Firm-Year Observations for the Period 1962-2001. 
 
 
Panel A: Mean Coefficients and t-statistics from Annual Cross-Sectional Regressions Analyzing 
a Financing Decomposition of ∆OA. 
 
RETt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1ROAt + ρ2 ∆OAt + υt+1 
 
RETt+1 = ρ0 + ρ1ROAt + ρ2 ∆OLt + ρ3∆FINLt - ρ4∆FAt + ρ5 ∆Equityt + υt+1 
 
 
Intercept 
ROA 
∆OA 
∆OL 
∆FINL 
-∆FA 
∆Equity 
Adj. R2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.024 
0.096 
-0.228 
 
 
 
 
0.014 
t-statistic 
 
 
(-11.12) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean Coef. 
0.024 
0.105 
 
-0.034 
-0.255 
-0.179 
-0.269 
0.017 
t-statistic 
 
 
 
(-1.04) 
(-9.76) 
(-7.29) 
(-6.25) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel B: Next Year’s Mean Size-Adjusted Annual Stock Return (RETt+1) Partitioned by 
Independent Quintile Sorts on ∆OA and ∆OL (Number of Observations in Parentheses). 
 
 
∆OL 
∆OA 
Low 
2 
3 
4 
High 
Total Avg. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.062 
0.066 
0.099 
0.060 
0.102 
0.069 
Low 
(10,991) 
(4,809) 
(2,709) 
(1,837) 
(1,364) 
(21,710) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.026 
0.022 
0.041 
0.081 
0.092 
0.041 
2 
(4,763) 
(6,997) 
(5,326) 
(3,179) 
(1,465) 
(21,730) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.022 
0.012 
0.023 
0.042 
0.032 
0.020 
3 
(2,807) 
(5,132) 
(6,337) 
(5,142) 
(2,313) 
(21,731) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.062 
-0.021 
-0.016 
-0.016 
0.045 
-0.008 
4 
(2,009) 
(3,282) 
(4,927) 
(6,580) 
(4,931) 
(21,729) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.094 
-0.093 
-0.057 
-0.066 
-0.075 
-0.073 
High 
(1,140) 
(1,510) 
(2,431) 
(4,992) 
(11,644) 
(21,717) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.023 
0.015 
0.019 
0.007 
-0.014 
 
Total 
Average 
(21,710) 
(21,730) 
(21,730) 
(21,730) 
(21,717) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∆OA is the change in operating assets, defined as ∆COA + ∆NCOA. 
 
∆COA is change in current operating assets defined as COAt - COAt-1.  COA=Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Cash 
and Short Term Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #1).  COA is deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆NCOA is change in non-current operating assets defined as NCOAt - NCOAt-1.  NCOA = Total Assets (Compustat Item 
#6) - Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Investments and Advances (Compustat Item #32). NCOA is deflated by average 
total assets. 
 
∆OL is the change in operating liabilities, defined as ∆COL + ∆NCOL. 
 

 
62
∆COL is change in current operating liabilities defined as COLt - COLt-1.  COL=Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) - 
Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34).  COL is deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆NCOL is change in non-current operating liabilities defined as NCOLt - NCOLt-1.  NCOL = Total Liabilities (Compustat 
Item #181) - Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) – Long-term debt (Compustat Item #9).  NCOL is deflated by average 
total assets. 
 
∆FINL is the change in financial liabilities (inclusive of preferred stock) defined as FINLt - FINLt-1.  FINL = Long-term 
debt (Compustat Item #9) + Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34) + Preferred Stock (Compustat Item #130).  
FINL is deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆FA is the change in financial assets defined as FAt - FAt-1.  FA = Cash and cash equivalents (Compustat Item #1) + 
Investments and Advances (Compustat Item #32).  FA is deflated by average total assets. 
 
∆Equity is the change in external equity financing defined as EQt - EQt-1.  EQ = Book value of common equity (Compustat 
Item #60). EQ is deflated by average total assets. 
 
RET is the annual buy-hold size-adjusted return.  The size-adjusted return is calculated by deducting the value-weighted 
average return for all firms in the same size-matched decile, where size is measured as market capitalization at the 
beginning of the return cumulation period.  The return cumulation period begins four months after the end of the fiscal year. 
 

 
63
 
TABLE 10 
Next Year’s Annual Mean Size-Adjusted Returns for Decile Portfolios Formed on Total Accruals and 
its Components.  The Sample Covers 108,617 Firm-Year Observations for the Period 1962-2001. 
 
 
Panel A: Portfolios constructed on Components of Initial Accrual Decomposition 
Portfolio 
TACC 
∆WC 
∆NCO 
∆NOA 
∆FIN 
Rank 
 
 
 
 
 
Low 
0.066 
0.060 
0.073 
0.080 
-0.061 
2 
0.038 
0.056 
0.053 
0.081 
-0.013 
3 
0.029 
0.033 
0.043 
0.044 
0.003 
4 
0.028 
0.020 
0.042 
0.030 
0.016 
5 
0.016 
0.014 
0.017 
0.030 
0.014 
6 
0.015 
0.024 
0.009 
0.019 
0.025 
7 
0.012 
0.004 
-0.003 
-0.008 
0.022 
8 
-0.011 
-0.010 
-0.013 
-0.032 
0.034 
9 
-0.026 
-0.032 
-0.029 
-0.045 
0.038 
High 
-0.067 
-0.068 
-0.092 
-0.100 
0.021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hedge 
0.133 
0.128 
0.165 
0.180 
-0.082 
t-statistic 
10.25 
10.56 
14.26 
14.91 
-7.49 
 
 
Panel B: Portfolios constructed on Components of Extended Accrual Decomposition 
Portfolio 
∆COA 
-∆COL 
∆NCOA 
-∆NCOL 
∆ STI 
∆ LTI 
-∆ FINL 
Rank 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Low 
0.069 
-0.027 
0.070 
-0.008 
0.022 
0.026 
-0.076 
2 
0.061 
0.001 
0.054 
-0.003 
0.013 
0.008 
-0.024 
3 
0.029 
0.001 
0.049 
0.019 
0.005 
0.015 
-0.010 
4 
0.017 
0.016 
0.033 
0.007 
0.005 
0.015 
0.007 
5 
0.026 
0.016 
0.022 
0.007 
0.005 
0.015 
0.028 
6 
0.007 
0.018 
0.004 
0.016 
0.005 
0.015 
0.035 
7 
0.010 
0.010 
-0.001 
0.033 
0.005 
0.015 
0.032 
8 
-0.017 
0.017 
-0.009 
0.007 
0.005 
0.015 
0.038 
9 
-0.025 
0.020 
-0.029 
0.019 
0.016 
0.002 
0.044 
High 
-0.076 
0.028 
-0.091 
0.003 
0.015 
-0.026 
0.029 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hedge 
0.145 
-0.055 
0.161 
-0.011 
0.007 
0.052 
-0.105 
t-statistic 
11.79 
-4.64 
14.02 
-1.08 
0.71 
5.40 
-10.09 
 
Portfolios are formed based on total accruals and its components.  Firm-year observations are ranked annually and assigned 
in equal numbers to decile portfolios based on the respective accrual component. 
 
Hedge represents the net return generated by taking a long position in the ‘Low’ portfolio and an equal sized short position 
in the ‘High’ portfolio.  T-statistic tests whether the hedge return is statistically different from zero. 
 
TACC is total accruals from the balance sheet approach.  It is calculated as ∆Working Capital (∆WC) + ∆Non-Current 
Operating (∆NCO) + ∆Financial (∆FIN).  This can be equivalently written as (∆COA - ∆COL) + (∆NCOA - ∆NCOL) + 
(∆FINA - ∆FINL).  Total accruals and all of its components (described below) are deflated by average total assets. 
 

 
64
∆WC is defined as WCt - WCt-1. Where WC = Current Operating Assets (COA) - Current Operating Liabilities (COL) 
where COA=Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Cash and Short Term Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #1). 
COL=Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #5) - Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34).  
∆COA is change in current operating assets defined as COAt - COAt-1.   
∆COL is change in current operating liabilities defined as COLt - COLt-1.   
 
∆NCO is defined as NCOt - NCOt-1. Where NCO = Non-Current Operating Assets (NCOA) - Non-Current Operating 
Liabilities (NCOL) where NCOA = Total Assets (Compustat item #6) - Current Assets (Compustat Item #4) - Investments 
and Advances (Compustat Item #32).  NCOL = Total Liabilities (Compustat Item #181) - Current Liabilities (Compustat 
Item #5) – Long-term debt (Compustat Item #9).  
∆NCOA is change in non-current operating assets defined as NCOAt - NCOAt-1.   
∆NCOL is change in non-current operating liabilities defined as NCOLt - NCOLt-1.   
 
∆NOA is defined as the sum of ∆WC and ∆NCO. 
 
∆FIN is defined as FINt - FINt-1. Where FIN = Financial Assets (FINA) - Financial Liabilities (FINL).  FINA = Short Term 
Investments (STI) (Compustat Item #193) + Long Term Investments (LTI) (Compustat Item #32).  FINL= Long term debt 
(Compustat Item #9) + Debt in Current Liabilities (Compustat Item #34) + Preferred Stock (Compustat Item #130).  
∆FINA is change in financial assets defined as FINAt - FINAt-1.   
∆FINL is change in financial liabilities defined as FINLt - FINLt-1.   
∆STI is change in short term investments. 
∆LTI is change in long-term investments. 
 
The portfolio returns are equal-weighted mean annual buy-hold size-adjusted return.  The size-adjusted return is calculated 
by deducting the value-weighted average return for all firms in the same size-matched decile, where size is measured as 
market capitalization at the beginning of the return cumulation period.  The return cumulation period begins four months 
after the end of the fiscal year. 
